but can also be viewed in a wider context. All objects of material
culture are powerful symbols of the age in which they were createdand used. The study of sporting items of material culture is still lar-gely under-developed. However, it is an important part of sport.
Items of material culture in sport include trophies, the tools of the
athletes (footballs, golf clubs, tennis racquets and so on), the dress ofathletes and the ephemera of match programmes and tickets. All theseitems would provide evidence for changing technologies (the devel-opment of the golf ball), fashions (the clothes worn by tennis players)and taste (the link between sport and advertising).
Further reading : Cronin (2005)
MAXIMUM WAGE
Setting a maximum wage that any player can receive is one method
of attempting to equalise playing strength between clubs, as it offerslittle incentive for a player to switch teams in the hope of gaining apay rise. Historically, its main impact was in English football between
its introduction in 1901 and its abolition in 1961. It led to a levelling
of wages among the top professional players and, even with someincreases, also served to limit the payments to players compared tounregulated occupations. Whereas in 1939 the footballers’ £8 wasapproximately double the average industrial wage, by 1960 the gapwas only 25 per cent, with relative earnings being £20 and £15.These days overall club salary caps tend to be imposed to serve the
same objectives, leaving star players the opportunity to earn nearer
theireconomic rent .
MEDIA
The relationship between the media and sport is one that has been
referred to as ‘a match made in heaven’ (Cashmore 1990: 193). Themedia have been instrumental in the success of modern sport. Whe-
ther through newspapers, magazines, radio or television, the audience
for sport has always extended far beyond the minority that attendedthe game or event as a spectator. The spread of sport across the globe,its cultural impact and business success, have mirrored the expansionof media technology and the globalisation of its practices and insti-tutions. The close relationship between sport and the media, that hasMAXIMUM WAGE
134