an ambitious undertaking. As such, all the concepts here have to be
treated as introductions. They are not, and neither do they seek tobe, deﬁnitive. The entries are designed to lead to a fuller engagementwith, and usage of, the concepts and terms. It is hoped that all readers
will make use of the extensive bibliography to further their under-
standing of any given concept or term, and see this book as a toolwhich facilitates understanding and further investigation. In the ﬁrstedition we included a list of relevant website addresses, but as withmany things on the internet, often these sites disappeared, were notmaintained or else were renamed. Rather than provide a list of web-site addresses that might quickly become obsolete, we have taken thedecision to omit them from this volume, and encourage readers to
search for organisations and themes via a search engine.
Concepts
A concept, as used in this book, is a general idea, or class of objects.
We have not been over-speciﬁc in our use of the term ‘concept’,so that we could include as many terms as possible that are importantfor an understanding of sports studies and physical education. The
format of the book is alphabetical, but there are strings of related
concepts that run throughout the book. These broad groupingsinclude:
/C15theoretical paradigms and the methodological approaches asso-
ciated with them. These include the major social and cultural
theories, as well as the various ‘isms’, along with approaches suchas anthropology or geography. At all times these concepts, as with
all others in the book, are deﬁned and discussed within the con-
text of sporting examples.
/C15research methodologies and typologies are explored to enable
the reader to understand how academic and scholarly research intothe area of sports studies and physical education is conducted, andhow it can best be approached.
/C15key disciplinary areas are identiﬁed throughout the text. As the
study of sports studies and physical education is such a multi-
disciplinary undertaking, we have tried, where possible, to outline
the importance of any given discipline, e.g. history, sociology, sportsmedicine, and so on, to the wider study of the whole subject.
/C15the sports business and sports organisations are increasingly
powerful and important, and have a huge effect on the generalarea of sports studies and physical education. While not seeking toINTRODUCTION
x