explore the dominance of men over women within sporting gender
battles, the strength of the white racial groups over others, and the
control exerted by certain classes over others in sporting institutionsand organisations.
See also :control, gender, politics
HERITAGE
Looking backwards at sport has become an industry as sports mar-keters offer memories for sale. Seniors’ tournaments allow fans to
watch the sports stars of their youth continuing to demonstrate their
skills; retro-heritage events such as playing golf with old-fashionedhickory-shafted clubs go back even further in time; and stadium tour
operators and sports museums charge enthusiasts for worshipping atthe shrine of individual and collective memory. More commonlystreet names commemorate stars of the past: Newmarket, the centreof British horseracing, has them named after jockeys, horses, owners,trainers and administrators. Another form of sporting heritage lies in
the fact that some sporting terminologies have become part of our
everyday language. How many of us realise that ‘coming up toscratch’ and ‘having bottle’ emanate from prize-ﬁghting or that ‘fastand loose’ was originally a term in archery?
A word of warning. Nostalgia does not always infer a true recol-
lection of the past. Memory can be edited and gilded. Each genera-tion juxtaposes a re-constructed past with an ‘inferior’ present andoften even poorer future; sport back in ‘the good old days’ was per-
ceived as being played differently. History can also be perverted as
withinvented traditions which deliberately offer a false perception
of continuity.
Further reading : Vamplew (2004)
HIGH CULTURE
A deﬁnition of high culture is the training, development and reﬁne-ment of mind, taste and manners in a society. In Britain it tends to bebased on afﬂuence, intellect and class position. Despite claims thatfootball is the ‘beautiful game’, generally sport is regarded as beingpart of mass - rather than high culture. One reason is that the graceHERITAGE
104