between the lines of action of the two forces. The greater the
magnitude, the greater the tendency to rotation ; and the greater the
distance between the lines of action, the greater the tendency to
rotation. The moment is the product of the factors’ magnitude and
distance, and is sometimes known as torque.
Further reading : Dyson (1986), Hay (1993)
MOMENTUM
Momentum is the product of an object’s mass and its velocity. The
greater the momentum of an object, the greater the effect it can
produce upon impact with another object. We know that the impactof a train travelling at thirty miles an hour is far greater than a bicycletravelling at the same speed. In such a collision situation, momentumis actually conceived so that the momentum of the train or thebicycle is transferred to the object with which it collides, with themomentum of the whole system remaining constant. This is animportant principle in sport and physical activity, because since
momentum remains constant within a system, it is possible to transfer
momentum from one body segment to another as well as from oneobject to another. Thus in striking a golf ball, the speed of theclubhead is a result of the summation of forces internally producedby trunk rotation, leg drive, arm swing, etc. and culminating in thewrist speed used to generate club-head speed to provide impulse tothe ball. ‘Long hitters’, such as Tiger Woods, have developed theability to effectively and efﬁciently transfer momentum through
segmented body movements, to enable them to hit the ball long
distances.
Further reading : Dyson (1986), Hay (1993), Wells and Luttgens (1976)
MONOPOLY
A monopoly exists when there is only one seller in a market. This
enables that seller to charge a higher price than would be the case if
there was a degree of competition. For example, most buyers of aparticular club’s endorsed products would not consider purchasing asimilar item carrying the logo of another club. Thus ofﬁcial clubproducts usually carry a mark-up as well as a brand logo, as fans andMOMENTUM
140