What has often been lacking in academic writing on sport, has
been a thorough understanding of the workings of government
within the sporting domain. Writers such as Houlihan (1991) havesought to explain the interface that exists between sport and govern-
ment, and in doing so have illustrated how politics impact on sport.
Through the evolution of government policy , the political world
can transform access to sport by providing more facilities, providebetter training for elite athletes, and can support bids to host majorsporting events. Governments have also pursued a political agenda bymobilising sport as a method of evoking feelings of nationalism ,i n
promoting sporting facilities as a way of enticing tourists to thecountry, and by using sport to improve the health of the nation and
thereby reduce welfare and public health expenditure. These issues,
which usually come under the control of a speciﬁc governmentministry, are issues that are commonly viewed as mundane. However,without governments, political parties and movements recognisingthe huge importance of sport within society, all these things wouldnot happen. Politics is about mobilising the population of any givencountry behind a system of government or a set of ideological beliefs.As sport is so popular, and such a part of so many people’s lives, it has
been a natural vehicle for achieving such mobilisation. Once this has
been recognised and achieved, the majority of political involvementwith sport is about harnessing and maintaining the relationshipthrough the provision of facilities, the distribution of funds, andthe setting up of administrative bodies such as the British SportsCouncil.
At the general level there is a host of other sporting issues that are
political. The debate that surrounds the sponsorship of sporting
events by cigarette companies has evoked a response from both
national governments and the European Commission. Equallyimportant, at the global level of politics, is the control and provisionof television coverage of sport, and the rights of either sportingassociations or television companies to restrict viewing on the basis ofmaximising their proﬁts. Finally, sport has become politically impor-tant within the wider battles for recognition and equality that havebeen fought by women, ethnic minorities and disabled groups in
recent decades. Issues such as equal prize money for women at major
sporting events, racial abuse of black players in major team sports, andthe rights of disabled athletes to compete in able-bodied sportingcompetitions, have become political battlegrounds.
See also :boycotts, government policy, nationalismPOLITICS
169