County, Bolton Wanderers or Millwall offer better facilities for sup-
porters, and reduce the impact felt by the local community.
See also :environment, landscape
Further reading : Bale (1981; 1992; 1993a; 1993b; 2000), Hall and Page
(2005), Patmore (1983), Vertinsky and Bale (2004)
GLOBALISATION
In the years since the Second World War, with the ending of manyformal imperial links and the advent of new technological media andbusiness markets, it has been argued by many academics, especiallythose in sociology , that globalisation is now a major force in the
world. There do appear to be many themes that are now commonthroughout the whole world, and the majority of these pertainto global cultures and markets. Easily recognisable symbols ofthe globalised world would include the omnipresence of brandssuch as McDonalds, Burger King, Coca-Cola and Nike. The strengthof these products has been their high proﬁle, their ability to breakinto and dominate new markets, and the strength of the ethos –predominantly American, capitalist and proﬁt-driven – that accom-
panies them. Beyond globalised products that are available on any
high street, there has been an accompanying advance of otherproducts and tools of globalisation. The global dominance ofhigh ﬁnance and the steady alignment of all the major money andstock markets has led to a globalisation of capital, while the steadyspread of major media companies, such those owned by Rupert
Murdoch or T ed Turner, has brought about an homogenising of whatis shown on television sets across the world. Sport has not been
immune from the forces of globalisation, and can in fact be seen tobe one of the most visible and commonly understood forms of thisphenomenon.
Cashmore (2000) has identiﬁed three major levels of globalisation.
These include the creation of global sporting competitions, thedevelopment of satellite communications and the growth of a sport-ing goods market. The International Olympic Committee was theﬁrst global sports organisation that sought to include all nations as
members. Other sporting organisations, such as the MCC in cricket
or FIFA in football, have had a large geographical spread, but this hasnot been as extensive as the Olympics. It is not solely the large-scaleGLOBALISATION
97