who could march, shoulder arms, instantly obey commands, and
perform exercises to improve their physique. It lacked real educa-tional purpose. Its introduction stemmed from political dismay atthe standard of recruits during the Boer War (1899–1902) and a
view in some inﬂuential quarters that the Swedish drill being
taught in elementary schools was ill suited to the needs of themilitary. The course came under sustained attack from teachers, andin 1904 a Board of Education Committee recommended that anew syllabus be produced that would take account of age andgender.
Further reading : Bailey and Vamplew (1999)
MODERNISATION
A blanket term used by many social scientists to describe the process
that follows in the wake of industrialisation and mechanisation. Formost of Europe and North America, the period of modernisation canbe located in the late nineteenth- and early twentieth centuries.
Modernisation has many effects, but these include the freeing-up of
strict divisions between social classes, an increase in social mobility,the growth in access to education, extensions to the political franchise,and the development of social welfare. The period of modernisationwas accompanied by the development, in artistic and intellectual cir-cles, of modernism.
The process of modernisation, and the changes that it effected on
society, had a profound inﬂuence on, and were also reﬂected in,
sport. As the lines between social classes blurred, so the distinction
between amateur and professional ceased to be as important a classmarker as it had once been. The opening up of education not onlyincreased the number of children who attended school, but exposedmany people to organised sport. In Britain, the 1919 physical edu-cation syllabus made allowance for the provision of playing ﬁelds andschool baths, and made exercise a compulsory part of a ‘child-centred’ range of activities. The later Acts of 1933 and 1944 furthered
the provisions that had been made in 1919. Sport has also served as a
useful marker of social mobility. As the effects of modernisation werefelt across society, so access to sporting facilities and venues grew.More people went to watch professional sport than ever beforeduring the inter-war years, and the rise of the middle classes gavean extra impetus to the rapidly spreading network of privateMODERNISATION
138