Further reading : Allison (1993), Hargreaves (1994), Houlihan (1991), Polley
(1998)
POST -MODERNISM
One of the major sociological theories of the late twentieth century,
post-modernism has had a profound effect on all scholarly disciplines.
Post-modernism was used, from the late 1970s, as a method ofdescribing the contemporary world. It was argued that the two con-cepts which underpinned modernism, truth and liberation throughprogress and development, had failed. Frederic Jameson argued in hisPostmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism (1984), that
society had reached a stage where many aspects of development were
ending, and that all remained was depthlessness. This post-modern
condition, although much debated, can be seen as possessing the
following features:
1 Pastiche: the development of style that no longer relies on single
cultures of historical epochs.
2 Reﬂexivity: a belief in a self-awareness that is accompanied by a
sense of irony.
3 Relativism: the absence of objective standards of truth.
4 Rejection: the dismissal of traditional forms of understanding
artistic techniques, such as narrative or reality.
5 Disrespect: traditionalism is rejected in favour of radical ways of
approaching artistic production.
6 Creation: a challenge to the concept of the author as the creator
of text.
Modern sport, because of its connection with the media, and its
reliance on spectacle and image, has been seen by many commenta-
tors, most notably the French philosopher Jean Baudrillard, as repre-sentative of post-modernism. Modern sporting events, such as theOlympics and the football World Cup ﬁnals, have been examined bypost-modernists as exemplars of cultural events that have become evermore mediated, commodiﬁed and unreal. Events such as the 1996Atlanta Olympics or the 1994 World Cup ﬁnals in the United States,have been used by academics to explore how bodies such as the IOC
and FIFA, in conjunction with sponsors and television companies,
manufactured an alternative sporting post-modern reality. Other areasof contemporary sporting life, such as club mascots, cheerleaders andPOST -MODERNISM
170