there is a strong correlation between a country’s gross domestic pro-
duct and the number of medals it wins. Such an advantage for theeconomically developed countries continues to cause concernamongst many who value the positive aspects of Olympism.
Olympism is not without its critics, who argue that it is a naive
philosophy and that its inherent contradictions undermine its ideo-logical force. While de Coubertin recognised that sport could beboth positive and negative in its effects, he believed that by continu-ing to bring the youth of the world together every four years, thepositive aspects of Olympism could be promoted and achieved.
Further reading : Gruneau and Cantelon (1988), Guttmann (1992), MacAloon
(1981), Segrave (1988), Senn (1999)
OPEN LOOP
The idea of an open loop mode of movement control is that amovement is ‘pre-programmed’ and executed without on-goingcorrection (or feedback). Proponents of this idea acknowledge thatthis model probably only applies to certain types of movement per-formed in certain contexts. Thus Schmidt believes that in a fastmovement, such as throwing a ball as far as possible, an open loop
mode is employed using generalised motor programmes. And while
selection of a new movement can only occur after the movement iscompleted, there is evidence that corrections in movement executioncan be performed. The determining factor is time available, alongwith level of skill learning of the performer, the difﬁculty of the taskbeing performed and the type of response required.
Further reading : Magill (1998), Schmidt and Lee (1999)
ORIGINS OF SPORT
As the deﬁnition of sport is so contested, it is therefore problematic
to clearly point to the exact origins of sport. There is a wealth ofarchaeological evidence to demonstrate that many ancient cultures,including the Mayans of Central America, and the Greeks and
Romans of Europe, venerated athletic competition of various kinds,
and that some of these contests, such as the Olympics (ancient) ,
were organised into sporting festivals. However, many of these con-OPEN LOOP
158