1970s, was especially important in challenging the accepted gendered
roles within society, and used sport, amongst other things, to projectstrong and positive images of women.
Despite such advances, there are still arguments that surround the
accepted gender roles within society, and how far equality betweengenders has actually been achieved. In the contemporary period somesports continue to exclude women, there are institutional bars onwomen competing in sports such as boxing, many religions disqualifywomen from competing in sport because of cultural arguments, andsome countries still frown on women’s sports because of domestictraditions. For those sports which women do take part in, there arecontinuing debates about their representation and their rates of pay.
Women’s basketball in the United States, staged under the auspices of
the WNBA, has been particularly criticised for promoting sexualisedrather than sporting images of its star players, and failing to pay thesalaries of the game’s male counterparts.
There are a host of other issues that have come to the fore as part
of the gender debate in sport. These include the levels of violenceamongst sportsmen and supporters which are replicated in widersociety, questions relating to the place of gay and lesbian athletes, and
the medical issue of gender tests for sportswomen. Studying gender is
essential in understanding many of the sexualised and power domi-nant roles in sport, and ideal for highlighting the issues of femininity
andmasculinity .
See also :discrimination, feminism, femininity, masculinity
Further reading : Birrell and Cole (1994), Cahn (1994), Coakley (1998), Hall
(1996), Hargreaves (1994), Mesmer and Sabo (1992)
GEOGRAPHY
The study of sports geography is, by comparison with other areasof academic investigation, surprisingly underdeveloped. Consider-ing the impact that sport has had on the landscape , and given the
arguments that have surrounded the siting and environmental
impact of major sporting venues, an understanding of sports geo-graphy should be essential for those involved in the business of
sport.
Bale (2000) identiﬁed three major approaches to the study of geo-
graphy. These are the study of regional variations, the landscape ofGEOGRAPHY
95