racism campaign to good effect, this does not necessarily equate to
members of different ethnic groups actually taking part in football.Therefore while the sporting world can be seen as one that promotesmulticulturalism, the question remains as to how effective it has been
in bringing different groups together on the ﬁeld of play, on the
terraces and in the boardroom.
Further reading : European Commission DG Education and Culture (2004),
Karlis (2003)
MUSCULAR CHRISTIANITY
Coined by T. C. Sandars in a review of Charles Kingsley’s Two Years
Ago(1857) for the Saturday Review , the term muscular Christianity
highlights and celebrates the association between physical strengthand resilience, religious certainty, and successful struggles ‘against theodds’, which the Victorians (and particularly Victorian males) foundso appealing. In an age that was ‘deeply troubled with religious doubt
[and] acutely aware of weakness and frustration’ (Houghton 1957:216), muscular Christianity found a ready and enthusiastic audience.
Kingsley’s muscular Christian ideal – of a man who feared God and
could walk a thousand miles in a thousand hours – was widely rev-
ered. It was popularised by a range of authors, including Thomas
Hughes in Tom Brown’s Schooldays , in which the muscular Christian
Old Brooke was portrayed as a typical blend of piety and physical
talent, guts and gusto. Hughes’ association with Rugby School, theimpact of Thomas Arnold and the Rugby School model on thepublic school system and its links to health, nationalism and Empire,
all led to the growth, development and diffusion of the muscularChristian ideology within the education of white, upper-middle-class
English males in mid-to-late nineteenth-century Victorian England.
The English middle classes, inﬂuenced by the Evangelical movementin the ﬁrst half of the nineteenth century, were religious. Their aimin education was exempliﬁed, as Newsome has shown, in the ideal of‘godliness and good learning’. It was to this ideal that the publicschools, headed by Arnold’s Rugby, were responding. The increasedemphasis on character training, the inculcation of strong moral prin-ciples in the school chapel, and the desire for healthy activity and the
development of strong bodies on the playing ﬁelds, reﬂected the
muscular Christian ideology and placed the public schools at thecentre of the development of this ideology. By the 1860s a publicMUSCULAR CHRISTIANITY
146