a way of seeing (from the outside, and from a number of different
viewpoints). Sport geographical study has considered the physical landscape at a number of scales from micro (local) to macro (global)level.
Initially much sport was determined by the physical landscapes
within which it took place. For example mountaineering and skiingmade use of natural landscapes and real tennis was played in human-constructed landscapes of courtyards. Bale has identiﬁed two keypoints that transform this relationship between sport and landscapes.First, the increasingly spatial conﬁnement of the sites within whichsport is practised and second the gradual artiﬁcialisation of the sportsenvironment make great impacts on landscapes. With the advent of
modern sport, the staging of events and the need to construct pitches
and venues of standard measurements, landscapes began to be chan-ged by sport. That is not to say that all pre-modern sport had noimpact: the Mayan ball courts of ancient Mexico are a classic exampleof a structure built for sport which transformed the landscape. Manytraditional games, such as folk football, had used the existing land-
scape, but modern rules demanded standardised playing surfaces. This
development led to the construction of permanent landscape chan-
ges. Golf courses, football stadia, baseball pitches and race tracks all
altered the terrain in which they were set. As sport has grown in itscommercial scale, so the demands for sporting complexes, whichserve a set of different purposes, not solely the staging of the game,have increased. The hosting of a major event such as the Olympics,can transform the landscape of an entire city.
In the post-modern era, landscapes have again begun to inﬂuence
sport, and new adventure sports such as eco-challenge depend
heavily on the natural environment rather than requiring any alteredor speciﬁc sport landscapes. Spatial conﬁnement and artiﬁcialisationhowever have begun to occur in some of those adventure sports
and they have been transformed by modernising processes. For
example snowboarding, that began as an alternative to rule-bound,competitive sports, has become formalised and in some places artiﬁ-cial tracks and courses have been constructed to enable judging orracing and it has even become part of the Winter Olympics .
Globalisation continues to inﬂuence the relationship between
sport and landscapes. While the impacts of landscapes on sport maybe decreasing, with standardisation of sport facilities, the impact of
sport on landscapes may be increasing as artiﬁcial facilities are created.In the future, other aspects of landscape including social and culturallandscapes may become more important in sport studies.LANDSCAPE
119