See also :geography
Further reading : Bale (1989), Eichberg (1986)
LANGUAGE
Most sports have their speciﬁc terminologies which are forms of
shorthand language used by participants and observers to commu-nicate with each other. So a riﬂeman will appreciate that his shot isnot the same as the cricketer’s, and others that a tennis stroke is dif-ferent from the rower who sets the pace for the crew Over the years
sporting terminology has inﬁltrated the nation’s language so that most
of us are now conversant with such English expressions concerningfair play as ‘it’s not cricket’, ‘a level playing ﬁeld’ and ‘moving thegoalposts’. Others which come readily to mind include golf’s ‘sty-mied’, ‘bunkered’, ‘par for the course’ and ‘the rub of the green’;cricket’s ‘playing with a straight bat’; ‘game, set and match’ fromtennis; ‘snookered’ and ‘caught behind the eight ball’ from the greenbaize games; as well as ‘jumping the gun’ from athletics. More his-
torical, and often with their original meaning forgotten, are ‘crest-
fallen’, for when a ﬁghting cock disappoints, and ‘playing fast andloose’, as dangerous in one’s love life as in unregulated archery.
Such use of language, and the meanings attached to it, has been at
the root of some of the most intense academic arguments during the
twentieth century, and has given birth to a host of theoretical approa-ches. At its most basic level, the purpose of language is to allow thecommunication of thoughts and observations between people.
Commentaries during sports programmes on either television or
through the radio use language to describe the scene, and convey
details, facts and images to the watcher and listeners.
The study of language, and its analysis, is not straightforward.
Theorists have argued that the use of language does not simplyimpart information, but develops meaning as a result of choosinggiven words within a cultural setting. Meaning can be understood asthe product of the intentions of the speaker, but this is challenged by
theories of post-modernism ,structuralism and post-structuralism.
All these theories argue that speakers and their intentions are not
value-free, but are controlled by the simple fact of the prior existenceof language. More broadly, the existence of language, and its usage,have sparked debates that question whether language represents orconstructs the world around us. Construction is especially importantLANGUAGE
120