MARTIAL ARTS
Martial arts include a wide range of ﬁghting skills, arts or sports, most
of which are of East Asian origin. These arts are typically categorised
as being with or without weapons, and thus their practitioners as
being either armed or unarmed. Martial arts are also categorised bytheir basic physical technique – striking or grappling – and by theirfunction and philosophy – typically self-improvement or self-defence,physical ﬁtness or competitive sport. Donohue has suggested that themartial arts offer a unique approach to mind/body unity, are sig-niﬁcant sources of both personal and cultural identity, and provideimportant symbols and rituals to enhance those identities.
In their development, many of the East Asian martial arts were
strongly inﬂuenced by Taoism and Zen Buddhism. As such, these
activities give speciﬁc attention to developing both mind and body,and have been adopted in many Western cultures as means of pro-
moting social, philosophical and spiritual goals such as etiquette, andspiritual as well as physical development, in addition to self-protection.These are known as the budo-oriented arts since they encompass andmeld the warrior arts of ancient Japan with the Zen Buddist ideals of
do – self-mastery, harmony and balance. Thus the most popular
martial arts, karatedo, judo, kendo, aikido and tae kwan do all havethe do element as an integral part of their philosophy . Additionally,
practitioners wear particular coloured belts to denote rank or level ofadvancement in the art, ranging from a white belt for novices to ablack belt for experts. Practitioners must pass through increasinglydifﬁcult tests of competence in order to reach black belt status.Having done so they can then achieve various levels or degrees of
black belt, known as ﬁrst through tenth dan, where ﬁrst through ﬁfth
dan signiﬁes a junior master, and sixth through tenth dan are reservedas honorary ranks for those who have reached ‘master’ status.
Karate (meaning ‘empty hand’) is now the world’s most popular
martial art. It is an unarmed method of self-defence involvingpunching, striking, kicking and blocking. Karate is thought to haveoriginated on the island of Okinawa in the seventeenth century,probably bearing some relation to kung fu, although karate employs a
closed-ﬁst technique whereas kung fu uses an open-hand style.
Modern karate was introduced to Japan in 1922 by the Okinawanschool teacher Gichin Funakashi, who added the philosophical com-ponent to this ancient martial art. Training is conducted in a dojo ortraining hall, requires the traditional uniform developed by Funakashiof white trousers and jacket fastened with the appropriate belt, andMARTIAL ARTS
130