The ﬁrst academic sports history organisation was established in
1972. The North American Society for Sport History meets annually
in conference, and has since 1974 published the Journal of Sports His-
tory. The British Society for Sports History was founded in 1981, and
has published its own journal from 1983. The Australian Society forSports History was formed in 1983, and has produced Sporting Tradi-
tions since 1984. Beyond the national, the International Society for
the History of Physical Education and Sport emerged in 1989, andthe European Committee for Sport History in 1996. The largestcommercially produced journal, which grew out of the BritishSociety for Sports History, is the International Journal of Sports History ,
which has been in print since 1987. The range and scope of aca-
demic interest in the subject of sports history has been reﬂected in
the growing number of dedicated research centres across the world,and the large number of courses, at undergraduate and postgraduatelevel, that teach sports history.
Outside the universities and colleges, sports history is ﬁnding a
ready outlet in the growing number of museums and sporting ‘halls
of fame’ that are being established. Also important in promoting
interest in sporting history and heritage has been the engagement of
themedia with the subject. In Britain, for example, the BBC has
produced landmark television histories of football (‘The People’s
Game’) and rugby union (‘The Union Game’). Sports-speciﬁc pro-
grammes, such as ‘TransWorld Sport’, now regularly incorporate ahistory feature in their weekly output.
See also :archives, museums, sporting associations
Further reading : Booth (2005) Guttmann (2004), Holt (1989), Kyle and Storks
(1990), Mason (1989)
HOOLIGANISM
Crowd violence at sporting venues has a long history , and can be
found in reports of rugby and football matches in the late nineteenthcentury. Hooliganism, although most commonly associated withEuropean football, is now spread across the world and a feature ofmany sports including baseball in the United States, cricket matches
in Asia and football in Japan. Many studies of hooliganism have been
conducted, and these have concentrated on violence connected withfootball in Britain and Europe. Such studies have been dominated byHOOLIGANISM
106