Stadium, and to argue in favour of a new national stadium. The
controversy surrounding these two issues, and others emerging fromthe reactive mode, provoke difﬁcult questions about the actual role ofgovernment within the sporting arena. Government policies and
funding initiatives need to be clearly spelt out, and should be long-term
if they are to succeed. It is clear however, that many knee jerk deci-sions made by government, in an attempt to capitalise on the popu-larity of sport, create problems rather than offer solutions.
Government policy in Britain has largely been concerned with
issues of access to sporting provision, and improvements in the health ofthe nation. The emergence in 1935 of the Central Council of PhysicalRecreation, from within the Ministry of Education, is symbolic of this
trend, as was the establishment of the Sports Council in the 1970s. It
is only since the mid-1960s that policy has focused on the performance
of elite athletes and the beneﬁts that good performances on the worldstage bring to the nation. The funding of elite athletes improveddramatically in the 1990s with the government’s decision to instigatea national lottery and to allow the bulk of its proceeds to fund thesports area. The success of this policy was evidenced by the positiveperformance of British athletes at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Else-
where in the world, other governments, most notably in Australia
and the United States, have been far more proactive in pursuingpolicies to improve sporting performance and accessibility. Many ofthe lessons regarding a centrally planned sporting policy for govern-ment were learnt from the decisions made by the former Soviet blocnations during the 1960s and 1970s. By allowing government policyto directly intervene in sports, nations such as the Soviet Union, EastGermany and Czechoslovakia improved their sporting performance
on the world stage, and brought great glory to their countries.
See also :politics
Further reading : Allison (1993), Coghlan (1990), Houlihan (1991)
GRAVITY
As a force, gravity causes an equal downward acceleration in all
objects, regardless of their mass, at a rate of 32 feet per second persecond. This downward pull is obviously a major factor affecting allsporting and physical activity, applying equally to performers and tothe sporting implements that they might wield, hit, throw or strike.GRAVITY
100