ﬁtness, would signiﬁcantly reduce their risk of coronary disease. As
society became more aware of the threat of poor diet and lack ofexercise, so ﬁtness became ever more important as a remedy. Fromthe 1970s onwards, the need to achieve a level of personal ﬁtness
encouraged the boom in activities such as jogging and aerobics, and
led to the construction of private gym clubs in towns and cities acrossmany parts of Europe, America and beyond.
As modern society has changed, and working practices have trans-
formed, so ﬁtness has become an active choice. In the past, when
most work involved physical exertion, and motor transport was ararity, ﬁtness was easier to come by. With the advent of a post-industrial service society in the Western world, being ﬁt is not a
given part of living, it is something that has to be actively pursued.
Constant government and media surveys demonstrate that all modernsocieties are becoming increasingly unﬁt, obese and prone to seriousillness. All medical evidence has demonstrated that a physical exerciseprogramme that develops cardio-respiratory ﬁtness, muscular ﬁtnessand ﬂexibility, while controlling the portion of body weight, will leadto a reduced risk from a range of serious illness, will keep weightdown and lead to an all round ﬁtter body. T o achieve such levels of
ﬁtness a range of activities, including weight training, cycling, walk-
ing and swimming, must be regularly undertaken. It is currentlyestimated that over 40 million Americans currently undertake regularexercise in an attempt to keep ﬁt. Of these, over 20 million regularlytake part in an aerobics class. In addition to those who seek ﬁtnessthrough organised clubs and classes, are the many millions that pur-chase home gyms and other keep ﬁt equipment, books or videos. Inits entirety the ﬁtness industry is worth in excess of £500 million in
Britain alone.
While it is clear that the pursuit of ﬁtness is a worthwhile enter-
prise, it is not one without its problems. The ﬁtness industry is
one that is closely linked to the dieting industry, and both ofthese, accompanied by the media, have created images of the ideallyﬁt body that many people ﬁnd difﬁcult to live up to. In additionto sporting injuries caused by the pursuit of ﬁtness, many others havesuffered psychological damage in their attempts to match the image
of what society often understands a ﬁt person should look like.
See also :exercise, health
Further reading : Cooper (1968), Gavin (1992)FITNESS HISTOR Y
86