a play-by-play description was broadcast in Pittsburgh. The ﬁrst
national coverage of a sporting event on the radio was when the Irishstation 2RN covered the all-Ireland football ﬁnal in 1928. As radioswere comparatively cheap to buy, the take-up in ownership grew
rapidly. By 1940, 44 million Americans owned a radio. With each
new radio set, a new sports fan emerged. The dominance of radiogrew through the 1930s as the coverage of sport stretched beyondactual games, and began to include discussion programmes and resultsbulletins. After the Second World War, a new medium, television ,
would become dominant. By 1950, 9 per cent of American homesowned a television; by 1972 that ﬁgure had leapt to 64 per cent. Therelationship between sport and television has been a close one, but one
that has often been fraught, due to disputes over exclusive rights and
the cost of buying coverage. Live coverage of games, and the globalspread of television, have helped create a new type of sports fan.Many people’s experience of sport is restricted to watching big eventsor live games at home or in bars with friends and family. New sta-tions dedicated to sport, such as Sky in Britain or ESPN in America,have fed the hunger for sport. In an attempt to beat off their rivals,such stations have constantly introduced new technology as a method
of keeping their viewers hooked. Media coverage of sport is impor-tant for the business of sport, for creating and sustaining its culturalrelevance, and as a symbol of globalisation.
See also :television
Further reading : Cashmore (1990), Chandler (1988), Koppett (1981), Larson and
Heung-Soo (1993), Oriard (1993), Rader (1984), Rowe (2000), Whannel (1992)
MERCHANDISING
Sports clubs have always been involved in sales of products other thanmatch tickets, though primarily this has been programmes andrefreshments. In the past two decades or so, however, there has beena move into merchandising goods branded with the logo or name ofthe team. For some clubs, such as Manchester United in football, thishas become a major source of revenue, with club shops being openedin locations well away from the club’s ground, sometimes even in
other countries. There has been little move in Britain to adopt the
American system of marketing ofﬁcial club products throughapproved league outlets that sell items for all member clubs.MERCHANDISING
136