PHYSICAL TRAINING
Physical training programmes have purely physical rather than cog-
nitive aims. Physical training is often associated with military purpose,
where developing physical ﬁtness for a speciﬁc purpose is of primary
importance and cognitive/intellectual development is of little sig-niﬁcance. Early ‘PT’ programmes in schools were decried as havinglittle or no educational value or purpose, and were gradually replacedwith programmes of physical education, which address the all-rounddevelopment of the individual through the medium of physicalactivity. This is commonly referred to as ‘education through thephysical’. In programmes of physical training the outcome or end
product is all-important, whereas in programmes of physical edu-
cation the process itself has intrinsic value.
PLAY
Three characteristics of play can be stressed: it is a voluntary activity,
it is separate from real life, and it is fun. Play is a voluntary activity
characterised by minimal rules , spontaneity and fantasy, and is viewed
by participants as non-work. Among young animals play is generally
regarded as being a way in which survival activities such as ﬁghting,ﬂeeing and mating are learnt. In humans, play is any non-utilitarianactivity pursued for its own sake. Meanings for the word ‘play’abound and are very broad-ranging. Play is often used to refer to awide variety of activities engaged in voluntarily, and includes suchthings as games , sports, creative activities, and make-believe. It is
also a psychological projection or a cognitive process underlying
particular types of behaviour (such as ‘playing the fool’ in order toattract attention to oneself). A third view is of play as a state of mind,or an attitude or disposition brought to a particular activity. Such anapproach suggests that a person can play almost anywhere, anytime,and that they can move in and out of a state of playfulness during thecourse of any activity.
One of the most inﬂuential books on play is Homo Ludens (Man
the Player) by Dutch historian Johann Huizinga, in which he exam-
ines play as a cultural phenomenon, noting that it is an irrational,voluntary activity, characterised by freedom. T o Huizinga, play is afree activity standing quite consciously outside ‘ordinary’ life as being‘not serious’, but at the same time absorbing the player intensely andutterly. It is an activity connected with no material interest, and noPLAY
167