ancient sports and games promoted by the Greeks and Romans, and
those martial arts that existed across Asia, were part of a culture thatpromoted and championed the cause of physical ﬁtness.
An awareness of the importance of ﬁtness, as a way of ensuring
quality of life and longevity, and of avoiding illness, began todevelop in the nineteenth century in Europe. Fitness was keenlypromoted by the Protestant and Methodist Churches of that period,who argued that the simple dictum, ‘a healthy mind and a healthybody’, was an ideal model for living. In Germany, Denmark,Sweden and Finland, amongst others, various forms of gymnasticswere promoted, and these formed the bedrock of a ﬁtness culture.During that time, and especially within the conﬁnes of British
public schools , the pursuit of ﬁtness was seen as an essential part of
instilling order within society and as a means of preparing young
men for war. With the diffusion of modern sport and exercise
across the globe during the second half of the nineteenth century,ﬁtness became a watchword in most modern nations. In mostcountries, men and women entering the army, especially those whowere conscripted, were put through a range of medical tests to makesure that they were ﬁt to ﬁght. The pursuit of a society where
everyone could be deﬁned as A1 ﬁt became highly important.
Where nations were seen to fail on the battleﬁeld, or when armyrecruits were being shown to be unﬁt, a sense of crisis ensued. InBritain, in the wake of defeats during the Boer War, and as a resultof the poor health and ﬁtness standards of First World War recruits,central government encouraged plans that would introduce physicalexercise to the school curriculum, thereby improving the ﬁtnesslevels within society.
During the inter-war period, the enthusiasm for ﬁtness was readily
apparent. While the belief that a ﬁt body was one ready for war, itbecame increasingly apparent to many observers and interestedmembers of the medical profession, that ﬁtness was a beneﬁt to thosein the workplace, and for women of all ages. In Britain, for example,the inter-war years witnessed the explosive growth of the Women’sLeague for Health and Beauty. Across the modern world, similarmovements blossomed, and all forms of physical activity that induced
ﬁtness were readily embraced by individuals, communities and poli-
tical regimes. In the new suburban towns of Europe and America,tennis clubs, swimming pools and other venues for ﬁtness became acentral part of everyday life.
In the post-war years medical investigations demonstrated that
those who regularly took exercise, and promoted their own personalFITNESS HISTORY
85