coverage, and the legislation controlling it was updated in the 1990s
to strengthen the position of terrestrial television. However, it islikely that the globalisation of television rights for events such as the
World Cup ﬁnals or the Olympics, will make it increasingly difﬁcult
for the listed events system to remain in place and cricket test mat-
ches have already succumbed as the England and Wales CricketBoard persuaded the government to allow them to take a lucrativeﬁnancial offer from Sky T elevision.
See also :media, television
Further reading : Barnett (1990), Gearing and McNeil (1999)
MACLAREN
Archibald Maclaren (1820–1884), a pioneer of gymnastics in Eng-
land, was inﬂuenced by continental methods but felt that apparatuswork should be supplemented with other physical activities such aswalking, riding and swimming. In the 1860s he was called upon to
re-organise physical training in the British Army. He did so using
the German system of gymnastics following the principles ofJahn . Although the Navy adopted the Swedish system of Ling
when the Naval Gymnastic School was founded at Portsmouth in
1902, the Army did not switch from the German-based exercisesuntil 1907.
MANAGEMENT
Sports management has traditionally been of two types, depending onwhether the manager worked in the public orprivate sector. Those
in the latter have always been concerned with seeking proﬁts in order
to ensure a return on the capital invested in the enterprise, be it asports store or a commercially run ﬁtness gymnasium. In that sensethey are no different from managers elsewhere in the private sector,
except that a knowledge of the sports industry rather than, say,
transport or banking was relevant to their occupation. In the public,not-for-proﬁt sports sector, clubs and governing bodies traditionallywere run by volunteers who ﬁlled coaching and administrative posi-tions. These people operated relatively informally, with minimalpolicies and procedures to guide their operations. Their mainMANAGEMENT
127