According to Pearson, philosophers of sport and physical education
tend to use one or more ways of doing philosophical inquiry within
four general headings: ﬁrst, identifying concept-unifying agentswhich would include such questions as ‘what activities might be
intuitively considered sport?’; second, working from models or para-
digms in which philosophers test a case (e.g. the athletic contest)against each of the components of a paradigm (e.g. Aristotle’s para-digm for tragic drama); third, language analysis – where terms such assport or physical education are analysed in order to detect contra-dictory or confusing uses of such terms; and fourth, phenomenology,which is a form of inquiry that tries to describe consciousness ofexperience, and thus show how athletes’ ‘peak experiences’ might
have certain common elements.
For the philosophers of physical education, one of the major
recurring themes has been to use philosophical analysis as a means of
identifying, clarifying and problematising the aims and objectives ofphysical education. V arious rationales have been put forward in sup-port of physical education. Among those rationales have been thosethat justify physical education as a means of promoting education ofthe physical, through the physical, and in the physical. With the
recent development of the academic study of physical education in
schools, some have suggested the additional objective of promotingeducation about the physical.
For those more concerned with philosophic analysis of sport and
physical activity, Morgan has identiﬁed three major areas for ques-
tions which have drawn attention, mirroring the three major bran-ches of philosophical inquiry: metaphysics, epistemology and axiology.The major metaphysical questions which have been addressed have
been regarding the basic features of sport that mark it off from other
forms of human activity. This, in turn, leads to deﬁnitional efforts sothat distinctions can be drawn between related concepts such as play,
recreation andgames . Morgan identiﬁes the major epistemological
questions as being concerned with how we gain knowledge of sport,and thus whether ﬁrst-hand experience is necessary in order to beable to claim knowledge. In practical terms, we can ask how impor-tant it is in terms of coaching expertise for a Premier League foot-
ball coach to have played Premier League football. For the philosopherof sport and physical activity, the question is one of knowledge,knowledge gained from ﬁrst-hand experience. This question obviouslyhas signiﬁcance for physical education, the physical education curri-culum and the idea of key stages , as well as for the education of
coaches by the National Coaching Foundation . The third arenaPHILOSOPHY
164