spanned over two centuries, has meant that the latter has not solely
reported on and analysed sporting events, but has shaped the debatesthat surround the actual development and conduct of sport generally.In the contemporary world, all sporting events, from the football
World Cup ﬁnals and the Olympics , to national and regional
championships, rely on successful media coverage for income and
exposure. Rowe (2000) has demonstrated how important the linksbetween the two are, and how central the mutual relationship is tothe business and ﬁnancial success of both. The increasing amounts ofmoney that television companies are prepared to pay for the exclusiverights to sports events, amounting to many millions of pounds forprestige sports such as football, baseball and basketball, demonstrate
how central sport is to the commercial success of television companies.
The advertising rates charged by television companies during an eventsuch as the American football Superbowl ﬁnal, will annually be higherthan for any commercial break during the remainder of the year.
Media interest in sport began in earnest in the nineteenth century
with sports-speciﬁc newspaper titles such as Bell’ s Life ,Sporting
Magazine andAthletic News . In the early twentieth century, improved
communications technology allowed for the production of Saturday
evening results newspapers, and the growing concentration across all
newspaper titles on sports issues. In the 1920s, the advent of photo-graphs in the pages of the newspapers added an extra dimension tothe reader’s pleasure. The photographs enabled those readers whowere not present at an event or match to better understand theaction, and to see pictures of the stars of the day. The production ofsuch pictures, which helped give a clearer identity to sportsmen,meant that sporting heroes were more readily produced and more
commonly shared. The place of the sports star in the newspapersbecame more ﬁrmly ﬁxed from the 1960s as leading players beganwriting their own columns. This added to their stardom, whilemaking the relationship between sport and the media ever closer.News items increasingly emerged from the ‘back pages’ of news-papers as interest in sport and fascination with its stars grew
Radio broadcasting began in April 1914 when the innings-by-
innings scores of an exhibition baseball game between the New Y ork
Giants and the Memphis Turtles, playing at the Red Elm Bottoms
in Memphis, were sent from the Falls Building to the steamboatG. W . Robertson. Information was telephoned from the ball park tothe Falls Building, and then sent by Victor H. Laughter’s voicetransmitter to the Robertson. As technology improved, so did thenumber and type of broadcasts. In 1921, the ﬁrst baseball game withMEDIA
135