muscle tissue such as the thigh (cricket) and forearm (lacrosse), have
also led to greater use of protective equipment. For professional ath-letes, whose livelihood and career depends upon remaining ﬁt andhealthy, such equipment is vital. These athletes tend to set a standard
that recreational and weekend athletes follow.
Further reading : Grayson (1999a), Harries (1996)
PSYCHOLOGY
Sport psychology is the study of human behaviour such as achieve-
ment or competition and the thoughts and feelings associated with
this behaviour such as anxiety, self-esteem and motivation. Since itsdevelopment as an academic discipline in the 1970s it has beenviewed in two ways: as an applied psychology, in which the principlesof psychology are applied to sport and physical activity; and as asubdiscipline of sport (and exercise ) science requiring knowledge of
the other sub-disciplines of sport science , such as exercise physiol-
ogy,biomechanics , etc., and their theories, constructs and measures.
Those adopting the former view have tended to focus on studyingsport and physical activity as a setting in which to understand psy-chological theory and apply psychological principles. Those adoptingthe latter have tended to focus on observing, explaining and predictingbehaviour in sporting contexts.
As the study of human behaviour applied to the context of sport
and physical activity, sport psychology is one of the younger sub-disciplines within the ﬁeld of psychology, just as it is one of the
younger sub-disciplines within the ﬁeld of physical education and
sport studies. Medical and psychological concerns relating to healthand ﬁtness have increasingly been supplemented by interest in per-formance. And in pursuit of optimal or ‘peak’ performance, athletes,trainers and coaches have come to realise the importance of the psy-chological in sport performance. This interest in the relationshipbetween the athlete and athletic performance has led to two relatedbut distinct areas of study within the ﬁeld.
The ﬁrst area is concerned with understanding how psychological
factors affect an individual’s physical performance, and has led manycoaches to search for athletes who display particular psychologicaltraits or proﬁles. These coaches ask the question, ‘what psychologicalattributes should I be looking for in a champion, to match thephysiological characteristics that make a champion?’ The second areaPSYCHOLOGY
176