GENDER
The concept of gender is a popular means of discussing the simila-
rities, differences and conﬂicts that exist between the sexes. It has
emerged as a more favourable vehicle for discussing sex relations and
the context within which they exist, as the concepts of masculinity
andfemininity were often viewed in isolation from each other. By
using gender as a method of investigation, a wider and more usefulcontext is provided that includes both sexes. Sport is an arena wheregender is of the utmost importance, and one where, because of history ,
the different sexes have gendered roles. Sport helps to construct gender,
and affords a venue for the maintenance of the ideology of gender
difference.
The origins of modern sport in the nineteenth century separated
the genders along clear masculine and feminine lines. Institutions
such as the public schools , that were so important to the establish-
ment of team sports, were exclusively male institutions. The ethos
that accompanied sports such as rugby, cricket and football was con-cerned with the ideological creation of manliness, gentlemanly con-duct and muscular Christianity , all of which were explicitly male-
centred. It was not solely the public schools that separated women
from sport, but also the clubs and associations that were established tooversee the running of sport. Bodies such as the Rugby FootballUnion, the Football Association and the MCC, all explicitly excluded
women from their structures and disqualiﬁed them from taking part
on the playing ﬁeld. The only perceived place for women in sportwas as spectators in the stands, or in the kitchens preparing teas. Suchexclusion was aided by the medical profession, which argued, well
into the early twentieth century, that excessive exercise or exertion
was bad for women. Sport was suspected as having a potentiallydamaging effect on women’s reproductive systems. The situationchanged rapidly during the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century, in partbecause of the role that women played in the war effort between1914 and 1918. In the 1920s and 1930s, sport and exercise forwomen became increasingly popular, and they were granted increas-ing access to major sporting events such as the Olympic Games .
Attitudes towards gender, despite changing, were not completelytransformed. In 1948, when Fanny Blankers-Koen won four goldmedals at the Olympics , she was still castigated by the press. Many
male correspondents argued that women, and especially those likeBlankers-Koen who were mothers, had no place in the Olympics.The feminist movement which rose to prominence in the 1960s andGENDER
94