movement skills. As such, it offers but a partial explanation for the
extraordinary capacity of humans to learn and perform sport skills, andneeds to be supplemented by other approaches, such as those involvinghierarchical processing.
Further reading : Franks and Goodman (1992), Kelso (1982), Magill (1998),
Schmidt and Lee (1999)
INJURIES/TREATMENT
A variety of medical and paramedical personnel are involved in theprevention, management, treatment and rehabilitation of athleticinjuries, including physicians, exercise physiologists, athletic trainers,physiotherapists, nurses, coaches and physical educators. Concern
over injuries and their treatment has grown as the numbers of indi-
viduals of all ages participating in all types of sporting and physicalactivity has increased over recent years. The types of injury whichathletes experience are largely physical and involve breaking bones,damaging soft tissue, straining joints, or suffering concussions, all ofwhich are forms of impact or overuse trauma. Increasingly, psycholo-gical and emotional trauma are also being identiﬁed as ‘injuries’ thatmay need treatment (by sport psychologists or even psychiatrists), and
certainly athletes with drug problems often seek professional psy-
chiatric treatment.
It is in the area of injury prevention that those involved in sports
medicine have been placing the greatest emphasis. Thus increased useof training and conditioning programmes, warm-up and stretchingactivities, and the wearing of appropriate clothing and protective
equipment have been stressed as vital elements in the management
of sport. A range of treatment approaches or therapeutic modalities
have been developed, including the use of electrical stimulation, heat,
cold, massage, manipulation and exercise to deal with the range ofinjuries which athletes suffer. Particular sub-populations are suscep-tible to certain types of injury. Thus the young are susceptible toproblems relating to bone growth and development, just as theelderly are also at risk from bone problems caused by osteoporosis. Allathletes are susceptible to over-use injuries, for which the treatment isinvariably rest and reduced participation and training.
See also :sports medicine, training principlesINJURIES/TREATMENT
110