MOTIVATION
Motivation is the term used to explain the causes of an individual’s
initiating and sustaining a particular action and has always been at the
heart of psychology because it is concerned with why people think
and behave as they do. Theories of motivation ask why people initi-ate and sustain such actions. Maehr and Braskamp (1986: 3) suggestthat ‘most motivational talk arises from observations about variationin ﬁve behavioural patterns: direction, persistence, continuing moti-vation, intensity and performance’. In the context of sport and phy-sical activity, direction refers to whether an individual participates in aparticular activity; persistence refers to continued attention to that
activity or duration of activity; continuing motivation refers to the
extent to which an individual returns on a regular basis to an activity
(seeexercise adherence ); intensity refers to how much effort an
individual puts forth in a particular situation; and ﬁnally inferences
about motivation can also be made from performance.
Motivation has been seen as an outcome variable, as well as the
product of an interaction between an individual and the physical/social environment in which the activity is performed. It has also been
viewed as an individual difference factor used to explain the differing
behaviour of individuals in sporting or athletic situations. Historically,human motivation has been viewed from a range of theoretical per-spectives. However, there have been three major theoretical approa-
ches to motivation. The ﬁrst were instinctual approaches that were
based on the premise that motivation is inherited or innate. Thesecond were drive theories that represented the belief that humanbehaviour is motivated by drives which are designed to reduce bio-
logical needs: we still ask what ‘drives’ certain athletes to try as hard
as they do, suggesting that the athlete has a need which is reduced byattaining a particular sporting goal. The most recent approaches tomotivation have focused more on explaining why human behaviouris motivated by future events, and are termed expectancy theories.
We are rarely motivated by a single factor at any one time, and in
fact are often motivated by a number of factors, some of which may
even be in conﬂict with one another. Thus a player might want to be
a member of the soccer team but not want to be the goalkeeper.
Expectancy theories are founded on a social-cognitive approach tomotivation and behaviour, and focus on the cognition and thought
processes as governing action. These approaches have focused onsuch constricts as self-efﬁcacy, goal-setting, and achievement motiva-tion. Nevertheless, as Vealey (1996: 776) points out, all theoriesMOTIVATION
142