the sporting association. In North America it is the sporting hall of
fame, based around the careers of sporting heroes, that dominate.The museum that is built in, and based around the stadium, has beenmost successful. Collections of memorabilia and accounts of key
events in a stadium museum have usually been associated with a tour
around the stadium itself. In Britain, football clubs such as ManchesterUnited have built museums that form a stop-off point on the Old Traffordtour. This is similar to the cricket museum at the Melbourne CricketGround, which is accessed on the tour around this legendary cricketvenue. Such museums have usually been the most successful, as theyare part of a broader sporting tourism visit, and rely on the need offans to visit their favourite stadium. Museums, such as those at
Cheltenham for National Hunt racing and at Preston for association
football, based around the history of individual sports, although themost serious and employing professional curators, have been slow toemerge. The advent of lottery money in Britain has assisted thegrowth and spread of the sporting museum, but while individual fansremain willing to pay vast sums of money for memorabilia, it seemsunlikely that many museums will be able to compete ﬁnancially.
See also :archives, history
Further reading : Cox (1996), Johnes and Mason (2003), Vamplew (1998),
Vamplew (2004)
NATIONAL COACHING FOUNDATION
Founded in 1983, the National Coaching Foundation with itsmotto ‘Better Coaching ...Better Sport’ is based in Leeds and is a
charitable company. It is funded largely by grant aid from Sport
UK and Sport England, is overseen by a board of directors and run
by a corporate management team consisting of a chief executive andthe executive directors of six ‘teams’. These take responsibility for:high performance coaching; local coaching development; researchand development; communications; management services and coacheducation; and standards and structures. In order to fulﬁl its missionof improving the quality of coaching, NCF provides consulting,assessment and funding for efforts by institutions of further and
higher education to provide training for coaches at all levels, and provide
national standards for coaches in line with the National OccupationalStandards for Sport, Recreation and Allied Occupations.NATIONAL COACHING FOUNDATION
148