the working-class players and spectators in the north would swamp
‘their’ game. The new organisation abolished the line-out in 1897,allowed open professionalism in 1898, and fundamentally changedthe nature of the game in 1906 when it reduced the number of
players to thirteen per side and introduced the play-the-ball rule after
a tackle.
Gaelic football is the most popular sport in Ireland, and offers an
important social and cultural activity to emigrant Irish in Britain whodominate the competitions held on the mainland. Gaelic football’sﬁrst rules were published in December 1884 at the second conven-tion of the Gaelic Athletic Association. The codiﬁcation of its ruleswas a response by Irish nationalists to the growth of ‘English’ football,
and the game became identiﬁed with the assertion of Irish national
culture and opposition to British rule. Played by teams of ﬁfteenplayers each, the goals resemble rugby goalposts. Three points arescored by kicking the ball between the posts and under the bar andone point if it is kicked above the bar. Throwing the ball is outlawedbut it can be carried provided that it is bounced every four steps.
Britain exported most codes of football to the rest of the world: in
return it received two variants, neither of which has achieved any-
where near the popularity gained in the exporting country. American
football, commonly referred to in Britain as gridiron (from themarkings on the ﬁeld of play) was adapted from British rugby in thelate nineteenth century and has recently returned both as an amateurparticipatory sport and a commercial enterprise at the professionallevel. There are eleven players per side with unlimited substitutionsallowed. The scrum of rugby has been replaced by a ‘snap’. Fourattempts are allowed to carry the ball forward ten yards and, unlike in
rugby, passing the ball forwards is permissible. Australian rules football
was devised in Melbourne to keep cricketers ﬁt during the winter. Itpredates both rugby and soccer in its codiﬁcation and is based onneither. T wo of its unique features are that the playing area is oval inshape and there are eighteen players a side. There are four goal postswith six points scored for kicking the ball through the centre twoposts and one point for between the outer posts. Carrying the ball isallowed provided it is bounced every ﬁve yards, and the ball can be
kicked or hand passed. A player catching a kicked ball can claim a
mark and an unimpeded kick.
Recent decades have seen the development of touch football, a
non-contact version of rugby suitable for mixed-gender teams, andthe expansion of mini-versions of soccer and rugby, the former oftentaking place indoors.FOOTBALL SPORTS
89