NATIONAL CURRICULUM
The introduction of the National Curriculum was intended to raise
standards, and thus included assessment tests to evaluate whether
those desired levels were being attained. The National Curriculum
was created as a result of the 1988 educational reforms, and directswhat should be taught to children between the ages of 5 and 16 yearsinstate schools in England. Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales
now have their own legislation governing such matters. Attainment
targets are speciﬁed, and the degree to which schools are successful indelivering the National Curriculum is monitored by the Ofﬁce forStandards in Education (OFSTED) and takes the form of periodic
visits to schools by teams of registered inspectors who are empowered
to scrutinise all aspects of curriculum management and delivery.
Public and independent schools are not subject to the requirementsof the National Curriculum, but an increasing number now do so
voluntarily.
The National Curriculum for Physical Education in Britain teaches
and monitors children throughout their schooling. Based around aseries of different levels, and with clear attainment targets, the curri-
culum works from the basics of understanding simple movement
skills through to a knowledge of health and ﬁtness plans.
See also :key stages
Further reading : Department for Education (2001), DfEE/QCA (1999)
NATIONALISM
Since the formation of national sporting federations and associations,the foundation of the modern Olympics, and the emergence ofinternational ﬁxtures, all of which happened in the second half of thenineteenth century, sport has been inseparable from nationalism.International rivalries, that had previously been played out on thebattleﬁeld, in the race for empire or through industrial output, found
a new outlet. Sport allowed nations to compete against each other,
and to measure performance. It meant that ‘our’ nation could beat‘them’, which demonstrated that we were better, stronger andsuperior. Of course, much of this was hidden beneath the late nine-teenth-century attachment to fair play and gentlemanly conduct, butpress interest in, and attendance at, international ﬁxtures demonstratesNATIONALISM
149