LEADERSHIP
Sport leadership is to be found at all organisational levels, from the
President of the IOC to the captain of a junior club team. Sport
leaders may or may not hold an ofﬁcial position within a team or
sport, but they fulﬁl a role in which they inﬂuence other members oftheir sporting organisation regarding the selection and attainment ofthat group’s goals.
Leadership theory and research in sport have generally reﬂected the
major perspectives of leadership theorists working in other academicdisciplines. Thus early work on leadership and the leadership processtended to be focused on the traits of successful leaders. However,
when this line of research proved to be relatively unsuccessful, the-
orists turned to leadership behaviours and developed a variety of
continuums to reﬂect observed ranges of leadership behaviour. Theseincluded continuums regarding decision-making style (autocratic vs.
democratic), interaction styles (directive vs. permissive) and leader-ship orientation (task-oriented vs. person-oriented).
While a range of other theories have been applied to sport lea-
dership, such as contingency theory, attributional theory, and trans-
actional and transformational theories, the single most important
sport-speciﬁc theory is the multi-dimensional theory of leadershipproposed by Chelladurai. In this model, Chelladurai predicts that asthe congruence between the required, the actual and the preferred
leadership behavioural stakes increases, so group performance and
satisfaction will improve. The important antecedents to this modelare the characteristics of the members (are they Olympic or juniorclub team athletes?), the leader’s characteristics (autocratic or con-
sultative) and the situational characteristics.
See also :administration, bureaucracy
Further reading : Anshel (2004), Chelladurai (1993), McConnell and McCon-
nell (1996), Stogdill (1974)
LEISURE
An understanding of leisure must take into account the dimensions
of time, activity and experience. Clearly, leisure time is the discre-
tionary residual time that an individual has free from work andother duties that may be used for relaxation, diversion, socialLEISURE
123