PUBLIC SCHOOLS
The English public schools were central in the development of
modern sport. Many such schools, including Winchester (1382),Eton (1440) and Westminster (1560), have origins that predate thekey period of sporting development in the nineteenth century. The
public schools, although having always experienced forms of physical
recreation such as early cricket and football, were moved to embracesport in the nineteenth century as a result of a rapid rise in thenumber of pupils boarding, and the increasing problems of disorderthat accompanied the concentration of large numbers of young menin one institution.
The initial origins of sport in these schools lies with the boys rather
than the teachers. Eton, Westminster, Winchester and Harrow all
began inter-school cricket competitions in the late eighteenth cen-
tury, and the Eton versus Harrow cricket ﬁxture is the oldest con-tinuous match on the sporting calendar. In the nineteenth centurysuch sporting ﬁxtures rapidly came under the control of the headsand teachers at the schools. Cricket, as a game that was alreadycodiﬁed, was central to the growth of sport in the public schools. Inthe mid-nineteenth century, as increasing numbers of boys were sentto the schools, the expectation of the paying parents was that schools
would produce educated gentleman. A central demand was that
schools should produce boys of gentlemanly character with strongmoral principles. For Thomas Arnold at Rugby School, sport was away of achieving this goal. He oversaw the organisation of inter-house and inter-school tournaments, all of which were promotedwith one eye ﬁrmly focused on the ideological message of athleti-
cism . The number of sports played by the schools grew, to include
football, rugby, rowing, cross-country running and rackets. By the
late nineteenth century sport was dominant in many public schools,
and was seen as central to the promotion of manliness, morality,health and nationalism. The popularity of sport spread beyond theelite schools, and through the work of old boys and masters, waseventually to be diffused to the universities, the workplace and acrossthe empire.
See also :athleticism, diffusion, muscular Christianity
Further reading : Chandler (1996), Honey (1977), Mangan (1981), Money
(1997)PUBLIC SCHOOLS
179