foster personal coping strategies such as seeking social support,
relaxation procedures such as progressive relaxation, meditation orbiofeedback, and stress management training. All of these strategiesare used as a means of reducing high levels of anxiety and trying to
enable athletes to ‘get in the zone’ for optimal performance.
For those athletes for whom increased levels of anxiety and arousal
are necessary in order to enhance performance, sport psychologists
employ a range of psyching-up strategies and techniques. Thesetechniques range from increasing attentional focus through psyching-up activities, to the use of visualisation and imaging techniques inwhich athletes visualise successful performance as they prepare fortheir activity. Thus we may see downhill skiers visualising a successful
run as they stand in the starting gate. They also include the use of
inspirational music and, of course, the motivational speech prior tothe beginning of a contest. The most signiﬁcant element in this areaof sport psychology is that interventions need to be individually tai-lored for each athlete and each activity. Thus sport psychologistsdevelop individualised psychological skills training programmes basedon an assessment of an athlete’s psychological skills, and the activity inwhich they will be involved.
Further reading : Anshel (2004), Murphy (1995), Wann (1997)
INTRINSIC MOTIVES
Intrinsic motives are internal to an individual and ‘involve thatindividual’s interest in and enjoyment of a task’. A child who plays
tennis because he or she likes the sport is intrinsically motivated.
This is an important factor in developing an enthusiasm for sportamongst children in educational settings. The aim of any sports pro-gramme, if it is to succeed, is to foster the intrinsic motives forparticipation.
Further reading : Anshel (2004), Deci (1975), Wann (1997)
INVENTED TRADITION
Invented tradition involves the creation of a false continuity with thepast which, by constant repetition, eventually becomes accepted asconventional wisdom. For example, many people believe that theINVENTED TRADITION
113