that the potential victory of the nation over another was an appealing
prospect.
Throughout the twentieth century, links between the forces of
sport and nationalism continued to develop. In nations such as Ire-
land, which wished to stress its independence from Britain, sport was
used as a vehicle for nationalism. The promotion of Gaelic games,steeped as they were in Irish history, language and culture, offered acounterweight to the cultural imperialism of Britain. Similarly,
those nations who were colonised, and who subsequently entered a
stage of decolonisation , used sport as a method of demonstrating
their nationalism. Their players could wear national shirts, would stand
under the nation’s ﬂag and listen to their own anthem. If they could
then successfully defeat the ‘mother’ nation, the victory of the new
nation over its imperial overlord would be complete.
International competition has acted as a conduit for nationalism.
The Olympics, the Commonwealth Games , and the football,
rugby and cricket world cups, all allow for competition betweennations. By staging a major international event, the hosts are affordedthe opportunity of displaying their nation to the world. The 1936Olympics in Berlin were a showcase for the power of Nazi Ger-
many’s nationalism, while the 1995 rugby union World Cup victory
allowed post-apartheid South Africa to emerge on to the global stageproudly displaying its new ﬂag and anthem, and proving itself stron-gest on the ﬁeld of play.
International sporting organisations are important measures of
national status. For many of the ‘new’ nations that emerged becauseof the collapse of the former Soviet Union, the process of gainingrecognition from the IOC or FIFA was an important part of nation
building. While economic reconstruction or political stability were
difﬁcult to achieve quickly, the presence of the national team on theworld stage allowed everyone, home and abroad, to know that thenew nation had been formalised.
Nationalism, it is clear, is a central part of sport, and the excite-
ment that the ‘them’ against ‘us’ competition affords is a vital ingre-dient in the success of many sporting competitions. However, thenationalism created by sport should be seen as neither permanent,
nor necessarily a force for good. It has been convincingly argued by
Jarvie and Walker (1994) that the nationalism associated with sport isa ‘ninety minute patriotism’. Thus, rather than being a permanentforce, sports nationalism should be understood as temporary andtransitory, lasting in the hearts and minds of players and supportersonly as long as the game itself. Equally, nationalism, it should beNATIONALISM
150