in the language of sport. Such language has traditionally been seen as
predominantly masculine, and constructs sports as male, violent andwarlike. Sporting contests are described as ‘clashes’, a ‘head-to-head’,the ‘decider’, and so on. The choice of such words imparts a belief
that sport is about a struggle, where only the ﬁttest survive and win.
Those failing in such contests are described as ‘weak’, ‘soft’, or in thecase of the England football team that was defeated by the Irish in1948, as like ‘a girls’ house hockey team’. Especially important forthe use of language in sport has been the development of advertisingand sponsorship, where words become signiﬁers and dreams areconstructed. Nike’s appeal for us all to ‘just do it’, encouraged us toembrace sport and competitiveness, become a winner, and most
importantly, to wear the correct footwear.
Further reading : Baker and Boyd (1997), Beard (1998), Haldane and Wright
(1993)
LAW
Grayson has noted that there are four levels of laws that apply in
sport. First there are the basic playing laws – the rules of the game.When these are broken, the playing penal laws come into operation,
these being the penalties imposed such as free kicks, yellow cards and
sendings-off. The third level is the administrative laws such as dis-ciplinary tribunals and suspensions. All these are within the conﬁnesof the game itself and its administrators, unlike the fourth level whichconcerns the law of the land.
At this level sports law involves the application of legal principles
to problems arising in sport. Indeed, there is no such phenomenon assports law recognised by the legal system. What exists are branches of
law which can be applied to sporting institutions and unsporting
situations. In many ways sporting bodies operate like conventionalbusinesses. They have to recruit, train and retain a work force; securerevenue from a paying clientele; and pay out operating expenses. Inall such matters they are subject to the same laws of contract as anyother enterprise.
Then there is the question of assault and injury. Although in prin-
ciple sportspersons are not immune from prosecution for illegal violent
acts that they commit during games, in practice blind eyes appear to be
turned at most incidents of participatory violence, with more reliancebeing placed on civil law to compensate those injured than onLAW
121