and selves if social stability and economic development were dis-
turbed by a continuation of traditional sports in an urban industrialenvironment. However, instead of simply attempting to suppress tra-ditional sports or curb the excesses associated with them, the new
reformists also offered counter-attractions. Drinking-, violent- and
animal sports were to be challenged as leisure activities by tea parties,seaside trips, bands, choirs, libraries, museums and educational socie-ties. Health, self-discipline and self-improvement were the keystonesof the activities seen as rational and respectable. Although the pro-ponents of rational recreation had some success, generally rough-
ness was not replaced by reﬁnement as the advocated moral standardsfailed to permeate deep into the working class, the majority of whom
remained irreligious, intemperate, improvident and unchaste.
Further reading : Vamplew (2005b)
RECREATION
In its literal sense, recreation means ‘re-creation’, reviving the body
and mind in preparation for work. The term is often used inter-
changeably with leisure , yet the term ‘leisure’ is derived from the
Latin word meaning ‘to be free’, while the term recreation is derived
from the Latin word meaning ‘restoration’ or ‘recovery’. Recreationimplies the restoration of a state of being which some other activity,such as work, undermines. It is often referred to as organised activityfor social ends. Thus Cheek and Burch suggest that broadly con-ceived, recreation is rationalised leisure: it is the routinisation of
enjoyment. In a more recent review of deﬁnitions of recreation, Kelly
has suggested that recreation be conceived of as voluntary non-workactivity that is organised for the attainment of personal and socialbeneﬁts, including restoration and social cohesion.
See also :leisure, play
Further reading : Cheek and Burch (1976), Kelly (1996)
REFLECTION THESIS
The reﬂection thesis is a concept most normally associated withsociology , and is one of the three main theoretical approaches inREFLECTION THESIS
183