and, in the light of that information, considering how to promote the
product. There are two distinct but complementary elements to anydeﬁnition of sport marketing. First, there is the marketing of sportwhich involves sports leagues, associations, clubs and individuals
marketing their events, products and services directly to sport con-
sumers. Second, there is marketing through sport which involves theactivities of consumer and industrial organisations that use sport as avehicle to market their products and services to sport consumers. Atthe cutting edge, sports marketing involves the introduction of cus-tomer research programmes, development of ancillary products andservices such as merchandise, and the provision of ticket bookingfacilities, ﬂexible pricing packages, all-seater stadia, quality catering
facilities, prematch entertainment and high levels of customer service,
all with considerable emphasis on promotion, branding and publicrelations.
The sports industry is just one part of the service sector, and as a
result marketing a sports event or club is in many ways similar tomarketing other leisure utilities and services such as the theatre,cinema and concerts. However, the unique characteristics of the sportproduct and the unusual market conditions have required marketing
personnel to adopt different marketing strategies from those used in
other service sectors. Unlike other industries, the sports market ischaracterised by joint interdependence in that the clubs togetherprovide the core product, e.g. the game. Sports organisations there-fore simultaneously compete and cooperate. It is therefore not possi-ble to consider the marketing of individual sports clubs in isolationfrom the marketing of the sport as a whole.
At club level, sports consumers are often considered to be different
from consumers in other industry sectors in that they have an emo-tional attachment to the sport or club and see themselves as ‘fans’rather than customers. Because of this emotional attachment theyrarely switch to a competing ‘brand’ even if their team is not per-forming well. This unique characteristic can be a double-edgedsword for sports marketers. On the one hand this fan loyalty providescommercial opportunities for product and service extensions in areassuch as merchandising. However, it can also leave sports marketers
open to accusations of exploitation if not handled with care and
sensitivity.
See also :endorsement, sponsorship
Further reading : Mullin et al. (1993), Shank (1999)MARKETING
129