allowed results and stories to be ﬁled quickly. From the mid-1880s
the ﬁrst Saturday evening editions began to appear in Britain’s majorcities.
In 1896 the Daily Mail was launched, and included from the outset
a page dedicated to sport. This was a new phenomenon for nationalnewspapers. Although all the dailies had carried sports stories, theidea of a dedicated space had never evolved. In the post-war years thesuccess of the daily newspapers in following the lead of the Daily
Mail, and producing dedicated sports pages, and the steady growth of
radio broadcasting, killed off the majority of Britain’s sports-speciﬁcnewspapers. Those that survived, such as the Sporting Life, did so ona diet of horse racing news.
Britain has failed to develop a permanent dedicated sporting press.
Although France has L’Equipe , Italy the Gazzetta , and America Sports
Illustrated , British sports reporting has relied on the national dailies for
its outlet. In the 1980s, as newspapers fought for sales, and interest insport grew on the back of investment from satellite television, thenewspapers all began dedicated sports pull-out sections through theweekends and on Mondays. In these sections, all the elements of thehistory of British sporting journalism can be found. Mixed in with
the results are match reports, special features by sport-speciﬁc corre-
spondents, and guest pieces by former or current players giving the‘inside’ story.
See also :media
Further reading : Harris (1998), Mason (1986)
KEY STAGES
The introduction of the concept of a national curriculum for
physical education was associated with the idea of benchmarkingachievement levels at certain key stages of schooling.
For physical education a brief overview is: key stage 1 (students
aged 5–7 years) includes dance activities, games activities, gymnastic
activities, swimming activities and water safety. Key stage 2 (students
aged 7–11 years) includes activities from stage 1 plus: athletic activ-
ities and outdoor adventurous activities. Key stage 3 (students aged11–14 years) includes activities as for stage 2 but at a more advancedlevel. Key stage 4 (students aged 14–16 years) includes activities as forstages 2 and 3 but at a more advanced level. Those students takingKEY STAGES
116