having to be paid to their former club. Free agency allows players to
secure higher wages than if a transfer had to be paid; in effect theysecure the fee, in whole or in part, for themselves.
See also :transfers
FUNCTIONALISM
The study of sport through a functionalist approach presumes that societyis a well ordered structure that consists of many interrelated constituents,all of which are united in their belief in common values and processes.
The three major forms of functionalism identiﬁed by Abrahamson
(1973) are individualistic (society responding to the needs of the
individual), interpersonal (communications between people aimed at
minimising social strains) and societal (practices, such as the law,which satisfy the needs of the social system). The study of functional-ism in sport is effectively concerned with the role of sporting activity
in creating balance within the wider society. The main concerns ofresearch into sport, which adopts the functionalist approach, is to
assess whether sport creates good character, how it brings about the
coherence and solidarity of the communities within which it functions,whether it creates good citizens who are supportive of the existingsocial order, and how sport instils a positive work ethic into people(adapted from Coakley 1998: 33). Functionalism has been embracedby many sports sociologists as it views sport as essentially positive.
Further reading : Abrahamson (1973), Booth and Loy (2000), Coakley (1998)
GAMBLING
Gambling has become a regular and well publicised recreation providedby business organisations and taxed by governments. It involves bettingon the outcome of an event. Sport lends itself to gambling because ofits competitive character with winners and losers. Gambling can take
one of three forms: remote speculation, as with lotteries; incidental,
where the gambling is perhaps subservient to other social purposes,such as bingo; and judgemental, which applies to most sports betting.
Competitive sport has winners and losers, the basic element
required for betting. T oday most people associate gambling on sportwith horse racing, dog racing, or, via the pools, with football. Y etGAMBLING
91