tests were based around skills that were necessary for success in other
spheres of life. Such physical activities, including ﬁghting, javelin orspear throwing, target practice and so on, all belonged to broaderhabits of survival or military preparation and activity. Essentially
ancient physical activities, even when arranged around the celebra-
tion of a festival, were primarily concerned with the training for war.In the medieval period, physical events and contests became seen asan essential attraction at fairs and other gatherings. As a result, certainevents were encouraged, by different social classes, that share manyfeatures with modern sport. One of the key areas in the developmentof sport was the promotion of sporting events involving animalssolely for pleasure and the promotion of gambling. Such blood
sports, including bear- and bull baiting, horse racing and hunting,
drew large crowds and were enjoyed by different people from acrossthe classes.
It was the nineteenth century that was the key period for the
evolution of modern sports. In Western Europe, the century was oneof rapid industrialisation and urbanisation, and also a revolutionaryperiod in transportation. Many traditional games and physical con-tests that had been focused on fairs and other gatherings died out,
while others were adapted to the new urban setting and grew in
popularity. In an attempt to control the rowdy behaviour thataccompanied many events that used animals, such as bear baiting,laws were introduced to outlaw them. This legal control of sportingevents placed the middle and upper classes, as well as institutions suchas the Church, in a position where they controlled and mediatedwhat sports would be allowed. Those sports that the elites cham-pioned, such as horse racing, cricket, boxing or pedestrianism, were
controlled by rules that were drawn up by committees of inﬂuential
men. This was the start of a process of codiﬁcation, or the for-malisation of rules, which would deﬁne modern sport. As the wholeof industrial society became increasingly controlled by the rule of law,it was profoundly affected by the impact of new transportationopportunities and dominated by the ethos of Christian living, and sosport was modernised. The main development was the advance ofrational sports with formalised rules and codes of behaviour. This
shift deﬁned modern sport and marks a watershed in the origins ofsport. As the nineteenth century progressed, the success of gamessuch as football in gaining a paying audience, and the advent of theprofessional player, marked out a new phase in the history of sport.
See also :modern sportORIGINS OF SPORT
159