Zeus as sacrilegious, would have been a more decisive factor in the
demise of the Olympics.
Further reading : Kyle (1996), Sansone (1988), Y oung (1984)
OLYMPICS (MODERN)
As the architect of the modern Olympics, Pierre de Coubertin was
convinced that the demise of the ancient games had been the result ofinﬂuences outside the games themselves – inﬂuences that hadundermined both the spirit and the status of the games. In order to
prevent this from happening to the modern Olympics, de Coubertin
tried to ensure limited outside inﬂuence by making InternationalOlympic Committee (IOC) members independent of inﬂuence. Assuch, they took on the position of ambassadors for Olympism to theirnational sporting organisations, and are independent of any nationalgovernment. The IOC elects its own members, and is run by anelected president and an executive board from its headquarters inLausanne, Switzerland. de Coubertin’s vision was of sport, and par-
ticularly Olympic sport, as a religion, a secular faith based on good
sportsmanship and fair play . However, his motives for reviving the
games were broader than this. In ideal form he saw the games asbeing for health and cultural progress; education and characterbuilding; international understanding and peace; equal opportunity;fair and equal competition; cultural expression; beauty and excel-lence; and for sport’s independence as an instrument of social reformrather than government legislation. de Coubertin’s ideals have proven
to be very naive. Thus the organisation of the games as contests
between individuals representing speciﬁc countries or nations hasoften fostered intense nationalism, nullifying de Coubertin’s goal ofinternationalism. That the games were originally for men only, and inmost cases middle-class white men, has meant that class, race andgender have been issues that have restricted access to the beneﬁts ofOlympic competition and Olympism to a few. That issues of poli-
tics, professionalism and commercialisation have continued to plague
the modern games is indicative of the fact that, no matter what de
Coubertin’s intentions, the unintended consequences of his philoso-phy have led to as many failures as successes in the achievement of hisgoals for the games and for Olympism. The recent corruption scandalsurrounding the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah, thecontinuing problem of drugs and drug regulation, and the growth ofOLYMPICS (MODERN)
155