sporting ethos, it is perhaps unsurprising that they should use the
same device in the empire. Games such as cricket, most notably inIndia and the West Indies, were used to bridge the native andimperial populations. Not only did such sporting contact improve
relations, it also allowed for the diffusion of British ideals to the
native population through sport. Despite such positive goals, how-ever, racism was still rife. When the West Indies began playing testcricket, they were forbidden, until the 1950s, to have a black captain.
Many early sporting clubs or associations explicitly excluded Jews
or non-whites from membership, and backed up such bans with sci-entiﬁc argument. In the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century the racismthat existed in sport, as elsewhere in society, was underpinned by the
arguments of scientists and geneticists who argued that some races
were naturally superior. Such theories were central to the ideologicalbeliefs of the Nazi movement in Germany, yet were also commonlyheld by many others in Britain, France and America. The 1936Olympics were a showcase for the Aryan ideology of the Nazis, and
were supposed to prove the supremacy of the ‘Aryan’ over otherracial types. Such thinking was implicitly racist, and was overturnedby the success of the black American Jesse Owens in the sprints.
Racism in sport found its most virulent home in South Africa.
During the apartheid years, the whole of South African society wasdivided along racial lines. As a result, all non-whites were excludedfrom whites-only sports clubs, and the national representative teamswere restricted to selecting their players from the white population.The racist sporting policies of South Africa, and the general abhor-rence that was felt towards apartheid, led to a sporting boycott of
games against South African teams. Beyond the concrete case of
racism as part of the apartheid system, many sports analysts have
argued that the positions that non-white athletes take in team gamesare racist. The racial stacking of players into certain positions has ledto an overrepresentation of black players as running backs in Amer-ican football, or as wingers in football. Such positioning was based onthe simple assumption, which was reinforced by opportunities affor-ded by training, that black players were, because of natural ability,quicker than white players. Similarly, the over-concentration of black
players in athletic sprints has led to charges that black athletes possess
natural attributes that make them faster, whereas white athletes arestronger, therefore more suited to strength events. Racism has existedin other areas of sport, most notably amongst spectators. In the 1970s,as Britain was coming to terms with the impact of new Common-wealth immigration, many black football players began to emerge onRACISM
181