Olympism and the underlying social and moral values which the
philosophy of Olympism implies.
de Coubertin considered the Olympic Games as having an educa-
tional purpose, and Olympism underpins that purpose in promoting
sport in general and the Olympic Games in particular as a platform
for popularising the educational value of sport for youth. TheOlympic Creed highlights this value in suggesting that the mostimportant aspect of the games is not in winning but in taking part,not in the triumph but in the struggle. ‘The essential thing is not tohave conquered but to have fought well.’ Again, the inherent con-tradictions evident in this statement when compared to the OlympicMotto, provides one of the great paradoxes of Olympism, and con-
tributes to our continuing ambivalence about the games and the
feelings of fascination and disappointment which accompany thefestival every four years.
A third element of Olympism has always been the promotion of
peace and increased international understanding. de Coubertin ﬁrmlybelieved that in order to promote understanding among individualsand nations, it was necessary to know each other’s history and cul-ture, and respect it. It is for this reason that the host nation opens
each Olympiad with a display of its own unique cultural heritage in
order to promote such understanding. The long-term goal ofOlympism, in this regard, is ‘internationalism’, whereby mutualrespect amongst individuals and nations can be fostered. Again,inherent in this philosophy are the problems of patriotism andnationalism. The Olympic Games have been used to promote patri-otism and nationalism, as in Berlin in 1936, at the expense of inter-nationalism. This inherent contradiction has never been fully
resolved, and provides an additional source of on-going tension in the
Olympic philosophy.
Equally important to de Coubertin and his philosophy of Olymp-
ism was the emphasis on fair play . Since he had always advocated for
the moral and ethical grounds of sport’s importance, he followed thenineteenth-century English public school model of fair play, with
its amateur (i.e. non-professional) ethic. Sport was to be conducted in
an honest, honourable and chivalrous fashion, by honest, honourable,
chivalrous athletes, pursuing a more scrupulous and generous
humanity. The Olympic Oath, with its emphasis on the true spirit ofsportsmanship, the glory of sport and the honour of each team,highlights this concern. However, although anomalies do exist, it isgenerally recognised that success in the Olympic Games is far morereadily achieved by athletes from the developed countries, and thatOLYMPISM
157