Further reading : Brailsford (1992), Holt (1989), Lowerson (1993), Tranter
(1998), Vamplew (2005b), Wigglesworth (1996)
OUTCOMES
Outcomes can be speciﬁcally identiﬁed goals within a sporting con-
text, or the desired outcomes of a programme of study which of itself
may be either summative or formative. Curriculum design identi-
ﬁes desired ‘learning outcomes’ as the focus of teaching programmes
which inﬂuence both the nature of programme content and teachingmethod(s) which may be deployed. An outcome is the end result of a(teaching/coaching) process that may or may not be either desirableor achieve intended or desired aims.
OVER-TRAINING
There is no one widely accepted deﬁnition of over-training, just asthere is no agreement that there is a limit to the positive effects ofcontinued training. However, there is some consensus that con-tinuous use of a planned, systematic and progressive increase intraining (overload) with inadequate rest can lead to chronic decreases
in performance and impaired ability to train, known as over-training
syndrome (OS). OS typically takes the form of ‘staleness’ and aninability to train and perform to capacity, and is often only recognisedby an unexpected drop in performance that cannot be attributed toillness or injury. Other symptoms of OS include: mood disturbancessuch as depression, anger or anxiety; general fatigue induced by lossof energy, and feelings of heaviness in the arms and legs; changes insleep patterns; and changes in appetite, usually in the form of reduced
appetite.
In all cases, researchers suggest that rest is vital in order to over-
come the problems of over-training, although total inactivity is not
usually warranted. Rather, reduction of stress, which might includeother factors such as travel, nutrition, environmental and psychosocialelements, needs to be taken into account. Thus heavy travel sche-dules, inadequate or poor diet, altitude, heat and humidity, and evenadjustments because of changed school, work, or interpersonal situa-
tions need to be addressed. Most sport scientists believe that the chief
cause of OS is poor coaching and ill conceived training. However,even the most carefully planned training regimen can cause problemsOUTCOMES
160