components, namely, ﬂexibility, cardio-respiratory endurance, mus-
cular endurance, strength and body composition. Students are intro-duced to ways in which general health related exercise can increasethe well-being of the individual and increase the levels of their social,
emotional, and physical health. Classes are also used to explain what
can happen if general health is not cared for, namely poor cardio-respiratory health and weak physical performance. Students areencouraged to improve their cardio-respiratory endurance, strength,muscular endurance and ﬂexibility by taking part in regular healthrelated exercise, and to understand that such exercise should be partof a lifetime commitment to their well-being.
Further reading : Harris (2000)
HEART RATE
Heart Rate (HR) is both a very simple and a very informative mea-sure of cardiovascular function. Measured in beats per minute (bpm),heart rate reﬂects the number of contractions or ‘beats’ of the heart.
Resting heart rate averages 60 to 80 BPm, with rates exceeding 100
BPm in sedentary and obese individuals, and as low as 28 to 40 BPmfor highly-trained endurance athletes. In addition to being affected byexercise, heart rate is also affected by age, as well as by environmentalfactors such as temperature and altitude. Heart rate reﬂects theamount of work the heart must do to meet the demands of the bodywhen engaged in activity, as it is controlled by the SA node andinvolves both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems.
HEGEMONY
Originally a concept utilised by Marxists to describe the pre-dominance of one social class over others, hegemony is now oftenused to describe any social grouping that dominates or holds powerover another. The idea of hegemonic power is broad, and extends
beyond the concept merely of political power, also to encompass the
victory of the ideological and social vision of the dominant socialgroup over others. It follows from such thinking that for any changein the status quo or other structures to be achieved, hegemony mustbe transferred from one group to the next. In sports studies, theconcept of hegemony and hegemonic power has been used toHEGEMONY
103