and beauty of sport is transitory. Nevertheless sporting art, poetry,
and sculpture are associated with high culture, particularly at thecultural festivals linked with the Olympic Games .
HISTORY
The study of the history of sport, as a serious academic undertaking,
emerged during the 1960s as part of the broader study of social his-tory. In moving away from the history of kings and queens, politi-cians and other social elites, social historians embraced the study ofhistory from below. They argued, in key journals such as History
Workshop , that an understanding of how the working classes had lived
was vital to the study of history. It was stressed that the study of the
lower social orders should not be restricted to research into areas ofpolitical interaction, such as the trade unions or the labour move-ment, but should embrace all aspects of life, including sporting andleisure activities. The move of academics into the fertile area of sportshistory in the 1960s and 1970s, although important for professionalhistorians and those working in universities, did not signal the
invention of a new subject. Throughout the nineteenth and twen-
tieth centuries there have been countless amateur historians who havecatalogued many events from sporting history. However, such historyis predominantly reliant on what Vamplew (1998) has described as‘sportifacts’. These are lists of winners, game scores and scorers,season and career averages, and chronological accounts, often blow-by-blow, of club and team performances. Histories that are based onsportifacts are invaluable records of what happened, but they do not
allow for much interpretation of the signiﬁcance and relevance of any
given sport or event to the history of wider society.
Historical work that has examined the importance of sport beyond
the collection of sportifacts, has taken a wide range of approaches.Issues such as the economic history of sport, the part sport played inimperialism, the social impact of sport and the history of sportingcultures have been key amongst the main approaches. Most chron-ological and geographical areas are now well covered by history,
although there has been an over-concentration on the period from
the mid-nineteenth century and the emergence of ‘modern’ sport.Theoretical approaches have become increasingly important instudying sport, and this development has been heavily inﬂuenced bythe historical approach taken by those whose primary interest hasbeen in sociology .HISTORY
105