INDUSTRY
Sport as an industry contributes to the economy in several ways, not least
in the employment that it generates. This is not just the professional
sportspersons but also the sports-related occupations such as ground
staff and equipment manufacturers as well the less sports-speciﬁc onesof clerks, receptionists and salespersons, all of which are needed tokeep the sports business aﬂoat. In turn the spending of theseemployees can boost other sectors of the economy. The existence ofa major sports club can assist economic growth in a particular localityvia spending, sponsorship and attracting inward investment by puttingthe area ‘on the map’. It has been estimated that in 2000 employment
in England attributable to sport totalled 400,000, just under 2.0 per
cent of all employment. In terms of value added to the economy,
sports-related activity in England generated £9.8 billion in 2000,around 1.5 per cent of England’s total value-added.
See also :economics
Further reading : Cambridge Econometrics (2003), Gratton (1998)
INFORMATION PROCESSING
The development of the ﬁeld of psychology from its origins in philoso-phy of mind through behaviouristic theories of learning (in whichthe learner was viewed as essentially passive), to current cognitivetheories of learning in which the learner is viewed as an active meaning-
maker, mirror the development of our thinking about information
processing. Advances in areas such as cognitive science, artiﬁcial intelli-gence and cybernetics have also greatly impacted our views of motorlearning, motor control and motor skill development. The metaphor ofthe ‘brain as computer’, and of information processing being com-prised of speciﬁc sub-routines which organise, sequence and integrateour movements, currently holds sway in sport and physical activityresearch. As such, the most common variable used to assess the
effectiveness of our mental processes has been time. However, although
information processing models create a framework which is appar-
ently compatible with our current understanding of the structure andfunction of the nervous system, it is quite clear that this linear infor-mation processing theory alone cannot account for all of the complexprocesses which underlie the learning and production of humanINFORMATION PROCESSING
109