INTERNET seeWorld Wide Web
INTERVAL TRAINING
Interval training involves interspersing periods of strenuous activity
with periods of low-intensity active recovery. By strenuous activity,physiologists mean working at a heart rate of between 75 and 85 percent of a maximum safe heart rate. By low-intensity recovery, phy-siologists mean working at a heart rate of between 50 and 60 per cent
of maximum. The advantage of interval training is that it allows the
athlete to increase the intensity at which an activity is performed,thereby producing an increase in work perhaps by as much as twoanda half times over performances of continuous work. This meansthat the hours necessary to produce training beneﬁts can be reduced,which has also been found to have a positive motivational impact onathletes.
T wo further beneﬁts have been noted for interval training. The
ﬁrst is that it is adaptable, and may be used effectively in training for a
wide variety of activities such as cycling, swimming, track and weighttraining, as well as aerobics and general physical ﬁtness. A second isthat because of the use of rest intervals which enable body tempera-ture to drop, interval training can help avoid some of the environ-mental heat problems associated with continuous activity.
Further reading : Brooks et al. (1996), Fox and Mathews (1974), Pate and
Hohn (1984)
INTERVENTION PROCESSES
Since one of the major goals of sport psychology is to improve or
enhance athletic performance, performance-enhancing interventions andstrategies are used by sport psychologists as means of helping athletesperform better. They are also used as a means of fostering psycholo-gical well-being amongst athletes. T ypically, intervention processes
are targeted at reducing factors which might inhibit athletic perfor-
mance, such as anxiety, arousal and stress, and enhance factors whichmight assist athletic performance, such as self-conﬁdence, attentionand concentration.
For those athletes suffering from detrimental levels of anxiety,
arousal or stress, sport psychologists use intervention processes whichINTERNET
112