ADMINISTRATION
The ﬁeld of sports administration is one that has grown rapidly
throughout recent decades. With the emergence of modern compe-
titive and organised sport, committees were formed to ensure the
smooth running of any given sport, to draw up rules, organise ﬁx-tures and competitions and to discipline unruly elements. These earlysports administrators were usually drawn from the upper or middleclasses. At the national level they were to be found in organisationssuch as the Royal and Ancient Golf Club at St Andrews to overseegolf, the MCC to run cricket, or at the Football Association tocontrol football. In this early form, administration relied heavily on
former members of the public schools , or else, as Mason and Col-
lins have demonstrated with respect to football and rugby, local
businessmen. Whatever the social origins of such committees, theoverwhelming majority of nineteenth- and early twentieth-century
sports administrators were amateur . As sports clubs and organisations
developed and were increasingly run as businesses, so paid secretaries
and other administrators were appointed. At the highest level, sportsassociations began paying salaries and employing ofﬁcers to take care
of areas such as press relations, marketing and sponsorship. Since the
1960s, sports administration has been a deﬁnite career choice, andone that is often made after studying aspects of the subject at collegeand university level. With the growth of allied areas within the sports
business, such as law,economics ,marketing and the media , sports
administrators have continued to become more numerous and ever
more important. They are vital in sports organisations, such as SportEngland, in lobbying government for funding, and in administering
whatever money they do receive.
See also :bureaucracy, leadership, management
Further reading : Collins (1998), Mason (1980)
ADVENTURE SPORTS
There is an ever-broadening array of activities that are outside the
traditional mainstream of organised, codiﬁed, rationalised sport, termed‘adventure’, ‘risk’ and ‘extreme’ sports. They differ from traditionalsporting and physical activities in terms of their location, equipment,emphasis on endurance, and/or the degree of danger involved. TheADVENTURE SPORTS
3