geography, and the welfare of geography. The study of regional var-
iations has been driven by a need to understand the uneven spread ofsports types and talents across any given country. It is clear that fewsports are evenly spread, and that all have particular areas where they
are strongest and most frequently played. In Britain the concentration
of rugby league in the northern counties of England, or in Australiathe dominance of Australian rules football in Victoria, would beprime examples of regional variation. By combining a process ofmapping, with an understanding of both history and contemporary
developments such as business pressures, the geographer can explain why sports have succeeded or failed in different areas. Thesame process is true of the production of sports players. In Britain the
majority of professional football players have emerged in the North-
east. By mapping the origins of sports players, the geographer candemonstrate where talent emerges from in any given sport. Suchinformation is invaluable to those who are charged by professionalassociations or work in education with developing and identifyingnew talent.
The study of landscape has been at the heart of much geographical
study. This area of investigation can examine micro-issues, such as the
siting and construction of football stadia, as well as macro-issues, for
example the dominance of golf courses in areas of east central Scot-land and their effect on local surroundings. In studying the landscapegeographers have had to be aware of both technological andsocietal changes that affect sport. Technology has played an
important part in taking sport to areas where previously natural ele-ments had conspired against them. Modern watering technology hasallowed for the construction of grass racecourses in desert countries
such as Dubai, while indoor stadium technology and the advent of
astroturf meant that cold, snowbound cities such as T oronto couldplay a full season of American football without hindrance from theweather.
Sports venues undoubtedly create problems and frustrations for
those people who live in the adjacent area. Such problems includetrafﬁc, noise, the litter from temporary catering outlets, and in thecase of football, the violence and disruption associated with hooli-
ganism . The appliance of welfare geographers has attempted to
overcome these difﬁculties, by planning out new stadia in aninformed manner that is sympathetic to the surrounding area andpopulation. The post-Taylor Report building of new grounds forBritish football, has seen the construction of out-of-town stadia inindustrial or commercial areas. These grounds, such as those of DerbyGEOGRAPHY
96