Many sport psychology researchers believe that progress in the
ﬁeld has been slow because new conceptual frameworks or models
developed within the context of sport and exercise have not beenoffered. They believe that too great a reliance has been placed on
the parent discipline of psychology. However, it appears that the ﬁeld
is moving towards a more integrated and inter-disciplinary approachto examining sport-speciﬁc questions and, while not abandoning‘grand theory’, is building its own models through which to testsuch theory. Just as importantly, however, sport and exercise psy-chology is looking to larger epistemological concerns about whatit means to know, and what knowledge is of most worth to theﬁeld. Use of a variety of data gathering methods, and interpretive
strategies that offer different ways of knowing, is being increasingly
encouraged.
The ﬁeld of psychology of sport and physical activity has been
dominated by research conducted in North America. And despite thesimilarities that exist between sporting cultures in different geo-graphical regions, it is important that research ﬁndings from oneculture or geographic location are not used to explain sportingbehaviours in all other locations. Human behaviour is inﬂuenced by
the society and culture in which it is located. Therefore, as Biddle has
noted, the ﬁeld needs to take account of the diversity and richness ofsporting cultures, and not assume that globalisation will subsumecultural differences.
Further reading : Biddle (1995), Biddle and Mutrie (2006), Cox (1994), Horn
(1992), Murphy (1995), Nesti (2006), Vealey (1996), Wann (1997), Wein-
berg and Gould (1999)
PUBLIC GOODS
Essentially, public goods are those whose beneﬁts can be enjoyed by
many people without detriment to each other’s enjoyment. In contrasttoprivate goods , one person’s consumption of a public good does
not exclude someone else from also consuming that good or service.
An example of such a public good is the ‘feelgood’ factor engendered
by the success of a national sports team. Public goods must not beconfused with the idea of the public sector .
See also :private goodsPUBLIC GOODS
178