PUBLIC SECTOR
The term ‘public sector’ generally infers the supply of goods
and services by local government, central government, or a quasi-
governmental agency. The role of the public sector organisations has
changed over the last two decades. The initial involvement of thepublic sector in sport was a product of the post-war creation of awelfare state. There was an assumption that the government had aresponsibility to improve the lives of individuals, including the pro-vision of sport facilities and the facilitation of participation opportu-nities. In the late 1980s the public sector was transformed into a moredifferentiated network of independent or quasi-autonomous internal
units operating with devolved control. The ‘new public manage-
ment’, as the operational mode of these organisations became known,
involved the introduction of ‘market mechanisms’, that is privatesector operating principles, to the public sector. The principle chan-
ges involved an increase in user charges for involvement in sport, theopening up of local authority sport provision and related services tocompetitive tendering, the creation of internal markets in localauthorities, and the devolution of control in which the providers of
sport services operate as independent units and compete with each
other.
See also :private sector
RACISM
Racism has always been a feature of sport. The origins of modern
sport, and the initial control of most sporting organisations, lay withwhite men. The world of the nineteenth century was one wheresuch men believed they were superior, and arenas such as the sportingclub or event were their sole preserve. They could not imagine playingsport with women or people from different races. Such separatismwas a feature of imperialism , and a product of the public schools
ethic, which instilled a belief in superiority into the sons of empire. It
was widely held that black-skinned peoples were inferior, morally
corrupt and savage. It was seen as a function of imperialism to civilisethe non-white populations of the empire. As well as religion, whichwas one of the main tools of the ‘civilising’ process in the empire,sport became increasingly important. Considering how strongly attached the British were to the positive values that were part of thePUBLIC SECTOR
180