FITNESS METHODS
Since ﬁtness is composed of a number of components, including
cardio-respiratory ﬁtness, muscular strength, muscular endurance,
ﬂexibility, nutrition and body composition, all ﬁtness methods needto address these factors. With signiﬁcant emphasis being placed bydoctors and other health and ﬁtness professionals on being ﬁt to
counteract heart disease, activities which stress cardio-respiratory or
aerobic ﬁtness have been the most widely practised method of pro-moting general ﬁtness. Weight training has been the preferredmethod of producing gains in muscular strength and endurance,while dieting has been the most widely used approach to addressingnutrition and body composition concerns. Perhaps the least practisedelement of ﬁtness is ﬂexibility. The ideal ﬁtness method or approachwill employ activities to promote ﬁtness in all of these areas.
Further reading : Fox et al. (1987)
FITNESS TESTING
When trying to maximise performance, it is important that athletesestablish their strengths and weaknesses in relation to the demands ofthe activity in which they are involved. For endurance activities that
require cardiovascular endurance and thus aerobic ﬁtness, maximal
tests such as VO
2Max are considered preferable. In such tests the
body is exercised to exhaustion and thus no extrapolation, based onsub-maximal test results, is necessary to predict ﬁtness level. This isnot the case with sub-maximal tests, such as the Harvard Step T est orthe Astrand bicycle ergometer test, which are predictive tests. Forstrength and power tests, pull-ups, push-ups, vertical jump, standinglong jump and 30-second Wingate cycle-ergometer test are all used.
T ests of health-related ﬁtness include heart rate, blood pressure and
lung function, and are factors we are more likely to associate with avisit to a doctor’s surgery than to our local sports or health club.
Further reading : Fox et al. (1987), Howley and Franks (1997)
FOOTBALL IN THE COMMUNITY
In 1978 the government provided over £1 million to football clubsto begin community-based projects, preferably in areas of economicFOOTBALL IN THE COMMUNITY
87