transporting oxygen to tissues. Each molecule of haemoglobin can
carry four molecules of oxygen. Normal haemoglobin concentrationis about 150 grams per litre of blood for healthy males and 130 gramsper litre of blood for healthy females.
HEALTH
Improved health is one of the major beneﬁts posited for participationin sport and physical activity. Principles of general health and well-being, including prevention of illness as well as health promotion, arewidely touted as laudable outcomes of such participation. However,
there is concern that many groups are not achieving appropriate
levels of physical activity to obtain these posited health beneﬁts. Thuswe ﬁnd that some young athletes are being overstressed and subjectedto excessive amounts of ‘unhealthy’ competition. By contrast, manyother young people are not enjoying the health beneﬁts which par-ticipation in sport and physical activity can confer because they areinactive, and not involved in sport or regular physical activity. Forexample, obesity is a growing problem amongst the young in the
Western world. It is also clear that participation in sport and physical
activity can delay the onset and speed of physical decline associated
with aging, and thus can help maintain higher levels of health for
older adults. However, as yet, we offer little incentive and fewopportunities for such individuals to be involved in sport. Despiteadvances in disability sport and sport for the elderly, sport and
physical activity are still thought to be primarily for the young andthe able-bodied.
See also :exercise, ﬁtness
Further reading : DePauw and Gavron (1995), Rowland (1996), Wann (1997)
HEALTH-RELATED EXERCISE
In addition to competing is actual sports, sports educators have also
championed a general understanding, especially amongst children, of
the beneﬁts of health related exercise. In Britain this has become partof the National Curriculum. Classes are used that introduce childrento basic beneﬁts of being healthy, and teach them about their bodies.Key areas of study include understanding and identifying ﬁtnessHEALTH
102