criminal law to prosecute those responsible. Much legal debate has
occurred over the issue of players consenting to be the subject of vio-
lence in the sports that they play. Generally if the rules of the game
sanction certain forms of violence such as a tackle in rugby or a
punch in boxing, then anyone injured as a result of these occurring is
seen as being the unfortunate victim of hard but fair play. The legalproblem arises if the tackle was high or the punch below the belt.Although theoretically the lawdoes not distinguish between an assault
on the playing ﬁeld and one in the street, in practice sentences for
the former are more lenient than for other offenders. Rationales for thelesser sentences are that sports violence is often heat-of-the momentrather than premeditated, and that the seriousness of the injuries was
not foreseen or intended. Sports authorities would in most cases
prefer to keep the law out of sport and run their own disciplinary bodies.However, such self-regulation has come under increasing scrutiny assport has become more professional and more commercial. Partici-pants have too much to lose, and will challenge the legality of therule book. It is thus vitally important that disciplinary bodies, at club orassociate level, act in accordance with the principles of natural justice.
Nevertheless it should be stressed that there is a legal responsibility
on all those who organise, ofﬁciate or participate in sport to exerciseaduty of care to those whom they can foresee could be damaged by
their failure to act reasonably. One area of increasing importance isthe liability of the organisers of sports events for injury to spectators.The current position is that they are not expected to ensure the safetyof all spectators from all contingencies, only from reasonably fore-seeable dangers. Spectators themselves have been subject to law spe-ciﬁcally enacted for consumers of sport. In particular the Football
(Offences) Act of 1991 sought to regulate fan behaviour in terms of
racist chanting, throwing missiles and pitch invasion.
Ultimately, the law can determine whether a sport can exist. His-
torically it has been used to ban sporting activities which interferedwith war effort via playing football rather than practising archery, asin the days of James I, or attracted too many spectators to matches, asin the First World War, or which were considered morally repre-hensible, as with cockﬁghting in the nineteenth century, pistol
shooting in the twentieth, and hunting with dogs in the twenty-ﬁrst.
See also :duty of care, safety
Further reading : Brackenbridge (1997), Gardiner (2006), Grayson (1999b),
Greenﬁeld and Osborn (2000a), Lewis and Taylor (2003), McArdle (2000)LAW
122