for some athletes, since research has shown that athletes with similar
ﬁtness levels respond quite differently to the same training pro-gramme. In order to increase their physical capabilities and improvetheir performance, athletes must train under conditions of adaptive
stress. T ypically, over-training is manifested in a number of ways
related to declines in the level of performance in terms of movementskill and coordination, psychological readiness and focus, and/orphysical condition.
While the causes of over-training are many and varied, its effects
are often the result of inappropriate frequency, duration and/orintensity of training, inappropriate recovery, or excessive competitivestress on athletes. Such issues are obviously of critical import in the
training of young athletes, for whom over-training can quickly lead
both to physical and psychological injury and even burn-out .
See also :burn-out
Further reading : Kreider et al. (1998), Kuipers and Keizer (1988), Raglin and
Wilson (2000)
OWNERSHIP
Traditionally, people have owned sports clubs and teams in Britainprimarily for non-economic reasons. They have been less concernedwith proﬁts and more with status, particularly in the local commu-nity, or with supporting ﬁnancially a side that they have supportedemotionally. However, as teams have become public, quoted compa-nies on the stock exchange, company regulations mean that theﬁnancial aspects of ownership have to be given greater priority.Nevertheless this still involves only a minority of clubs, mainly in the
football industry.
PATRIOTISM
A love of one’s country is most commonly understood as the emotion
lying at the heart of patriotism. This is different from nationalism ,
which is seen as an ideology that is linked with the policies and pol-
itics of governments and regimes, rather than the feelings of the
individual athlete or the collective sporting crowd. For the sportingpatriot the pride in national representative teams and players for theirPATRIOTISM
161