Competitive gymnastics is still based on the rings, horizontal and
parallel bars, and the pommel horse ﬁrst widely used by Jahn and hisfollowers.
See also :gymnastics, physical education
Further reading : Ueberhorst (1996)
JOURNALISM
As much of modern organised sport depended on paying specta-
tors to keep it in business, so sports journalism needed its readers.
The reporting of sport in newspapers began in the eighteenthcentury. In those early days it was mainly racing results and cricketscores that made it into the paper. As newspapers were originallythe preserve of the literate, and therefore predominantly the welloff, the sports that were reported on were those that interested thegentry. Despite the basic coverage that was offered in the earlyyears, sporting journalists did come to the fore. Pierce Egan, who
was on the staff of the Weekly Dispatch during the ﬁrst two dec-
ades of the nineteenth century, became popular as its boxing
reporter. A trend that Egan began, that of the expert and wellknown sports reporter or correspondent, would become a centraltheme in sports journalism in later years. The ﬁrst British sports-dedicated newspaper emerged in 1822, with the publication ofBell’s Life . In 1859 it was joined on the shelves by the daily
Sporting Life – a paper that would be published for the next cen-
tury and a half. Other titles followed, namely the Sportsman from
1865, and the Sporting Chronicle from 1871.
In the second half of the nineteenth century, as popular interest in
sport soared, newspapers began devoting increasing amounts of spaceto sports coverage. It was not solely the sports of the gentry that werereported on, but increasingly comment on the football and rugbyseasons was to be found. In response to the growth of football, Ath-
letic News devoted the bulk of its pages to the game, and was duly
rewarded with impressive circulation ﬁgures.
Daily newspapers had to respond to the growing interest in, and
demand for reporting on, sports events. From the 1860s the busi-ness of reporting on sport was made easier with the opening ofthe ﬁrst press boxes, and in 1883 the Press Association began a sportsservice. These factors, plus ever improving communications technology ,JOURNALISM
115