units actually take turns. It is only for activities requiring maximal
effort that all motor units operate at the same time.
Further reading : Magill (1998), Schmidt and Lee (1999)
MULTICULTURAL
The pursuit of a multicultural society has been a key aim of most
Western nations since the 1960s. The aim is to produce a society inwhich all cultural or ethnic groups are equal, and all have the sameaccess to that society through the law, education, sporting opportu-
nity and so on. Multiculturalism is a liberal agenda that seeks to
embrace and respect difference, especially in relation to race andreligion, so long as each distinct group also defers to the laws of thenation. Britain in a prime example of a nation that has pursued apolicy of multiculturalism. Since the ﬁrst wave of new Common-wealth immigration in the 1950s, all groups have been respected fortheir race and any decisions that they might make regarding theirreligious afﬁliation. Multicultural societies abhor racism, and the
rights of different racial and ethnic groups to exist free from the fear
of either verbal or physical attack are protected by law.
A policy of multiculturalism has been pursued by all the main
sporting bodies in Britain, and from school level a policy of sport forall has been followed. At the European level, policy documents suchas the 2005 report on sport and multiculturalism, pledged the Eur-opean Union to the pursuit of multiculturalism through sport. Thereport concluded that sport should be used by the Commission as a
communication tool to promote anti-racism messages. The report also
argued that there was a need to unleash the positive potential ofsport, both inside and outside the EU. However, critics of the policystate that while the intentions are good (and the anti-racism messagehas been clearly vocalised by most sports organisations), many sportsare failing in advancing the cause of multiculturalism. Critics questionhow far ethnic minorities have been integrated into the sportingworld, and cite the small number of black managers and ofﬁcials in
football, the absence of Asians in rugby and football, and the near
failure of most sports to cater for the Muslim population. Such cri-ticism are not unique to Britain, and similar complaints have beenmade about the pursuit of sporting multiculturalism in Australia,France, and the United States. The problem seems to be that whileorganisations such as FIFA can actively pursue a high proﬁle anti-MULTICULTURAL
145