Inclusion is therefore underpinned by the idea that everyone can become
part of the community of the school and create new visions for it. Thespirit of inclusion has been broadened to embrace a general idea that noindividual or groups should be excluded from society, and that the aim
of any state should be the pursui t of policies that promote social inclusion.
Sport has become an important part of this campaign. The belief is
that sport, as a potentially friendly and positive activity, can be used
to integrate marginalised or excluded groups into the wider society.In Britain, bodies such as the Central Council for Physical Recrea-tion, the Commission for Racial Equality and even central govern-ment have all identiﬁed sport as a vehicle for promoting inclusion.More broadly, the issue of inclusion was central to the European
Union’s promotion of sport during its 2004 year of Education
through Sport. Inclusion has also been a key policy with respect ofchildren with disability, and various campaigns, such as those by theY outh Sport Trust, to include those with physical disabilities inmainstream education classes.
Further reading : CCPR. (2002), DCMS. (2004)
INDUSTRIALISATION
Industrialisation and the associated urbanisation have had a majorinﬂuence on the development of sport. Historically there was not the strictdemarcation between work and leisure that exists today. Manyseventeenth- and eighteenth-century sports were based on occupationalskills, so that agricultural workers demonstrated their expertise in
ploughing contests and watermen raced each other in rowing matches.
Even the martial abilities of part-time soldiery were turned intosports via archery, cudgelling and ﬁghts using staves which provided testsof skill and courage. Events frequently took place on sites used forother activities, such as roads, rivers and open ﬁelds. With industrialisa-tion and urbanisation, leisure and work became more distinct, and bythe end of the nineteenth century the only work aspect of most sportwas that of the professional sportsman, venues were in ﬁxed locations,
and sports were often held within speciﬁed time frames. All this
resulted from the needs of industry for long and regular hours of work, the shortage of leisure space in an urban-industrialised envir-onment, and the specialisation of tasks within industrial occupations.
Further reading : Brailsford (1991), Struna (1996), Vamplew (1988)INDUSTRIALISATION
108