In the north of England, many talented working-class players were
receiving covert broken-time payments to enable them to play bycompensating them for loss of earnings. When an attempt was madeto legitimise this practice, the reaction of the rugby union authorities
was to declare that ‘only clubs composed entirely of amateurs shall be
eligible for membership’, thus embedding what had been anunwritten rule into their constitution. In September 1895 it wasdeclared that travelling expenses were the only costs that could becompensated. So strict were the new regulations that players could bedeemed professionals if they did paid repair work to club premises orif they were awarded medals without the formal permission of theRugby Football Union. Almost inevitably, this led to a breakaway by
those clubs that wished to continue with working-class players, and
the formation of the Northern Union (later the Rugby FootballLeague). Equally almost inevitably, broken-time payments quicklygave way to payments for playing, though only semi-professionalismwas allowed, and initially players had to demonstrate that they hadbeen gainfully employed in the week preceding a match.
Over time the opposition to professionalism has been diluted. In
the 1960s the distinction between gentlemen and players in cricket
was discarded, and by the 1990s rugby union remained the last of the
major sports to refuse to accept professionalism at the elite level.Finally, it too succumbed. In 1996, only days before the centenary ofthe breakaway of the Northern Union, a change of policy wasannounced which led to full-time professionalism in the leading clubsand substantial semi-professionalism elsewhere in the game.
See also :amateurism, shamateurism
Further reading : Smith and Porter (2000), Vamplew (2005b)
PROFIT
Any commercial organisation seeks to make proﬁts, but there isdebate about whether proﬁt maximisation is a major aim in the sports
world. Generally economists identify two ideal-type sporting organi-
sations: the proﬁt maximisers, who aim to make as much money asthey can, and the utility maximisers, whose aim is to win as many
matches or trophies as they can. Either raising revenue or reducingcosts can increase proﬁt, and many economists now prefer to use theterm ‘net revenue’ rather than proﬁt to emphasise this point.PROFIT
174