still strong, the fact that ultimate or extreme contests have developed
suggests that the action and violence of these ‘no-holds-barred’ forms
of the martial arts have signiﬁcant spectator appeal. The cult statusaccorded Bruce Lee and the impact of his ﬁlm Enter the Dragon and
its successors, have also helped popularise the martial arts around theworld, and particularly kung fu and t’ai-chi, two martial arts whichare of Chinese origin.
While there are a number of other martial art forms which have
East Asian and particularly Japanese roots, such as kendo (the way of
the sword) and jujutsu (the art of gentleness), martial arts are also tobe found in the Philippines and in South Asia, and particularly SouthIndia.
Further reading : Donohue (1994), Finn (1988), Wiley (1996), Zarrilli (1996)
MASCULINITY
As sport has traditionally been so male dominated, studies of mascu-
linity have been important within sports studies. The study of mas-
culinity is centrally concerned with the roles and activities of men
within society, and has been especially favoured by sociologists.Research into the area of masculinity has often concentrated onnegative aspects of men and sport, and as a result issues such ashooliganism ,discrimination and sexual abuse have dominated the
agenda. Also of importance have been those studies of sporting lan-
guage which have identiﬁed the overriding masculine nature of sport
commentary and comment. In language, as in the media and
through sponsorship , the virtues of masculinity, and the associated
imagery of strength and power, have dominated the sports-related
agenda. Despite the dominant position that men have held within thesporting world, masculinity has been little studied in comparisonwith that work that has focused on femininity . Studies of masculi-
nity have become increasingly important as part of the wider researchinto the broad area of gender . The importance of the link between
sport and masculinity should not be understated. Connell (1987: 85)
has argued that ‘images of ideal masculinity are constructed and pro-
moted most systematically through competitive sport’.
One of the key areas for recent research has been an assessment of
the body, and the attempts of men to take control of their own. Workhas concentrated on the role of sport in empowering men withinsociety, as a result of shows of strength and the development of anMASCULINITY
132