international membership of the Olympics which makes it a force of
globalisation. The IOC has been very astute in its dealings with the
media , and its television rights sale to NBC ensured that events such
as the opening ceremony or the 100 metres ﬁnal achieve the largest
viewing audiences of any sporting event. The development of satel-
lite communications has meant that televised sporting events are nowseen across the world both live, and as part of edited highlights pro-grammes. British Premier League football is shown in most countriesacross the world. The success and appeal of the Premier League isevidenced by the globalised nature of what are essentially local teams.Manchester United’s following, for example, largely as a result ofsatellite television coverage, now relies on a global network of mer-
chandise sales and supporters’ clubs. Similarly the NBA and NFL,
although promoting speciﬁcally American-based sports, successfullyused the global television market to ensure that the names of MichaelJordan and Magic Johnson were as well known in Europe as theywere in North America. The marketing of sporting teams, stars andmerchandise has been one of the most successful strands of the glo-balisation of sport. Companies such as Nike, Reebok and Ellesse havebuilt on the global fascination for sport, and sporting professionals as
marketing tools, to construct a global market for training shoes,
tracksuits and other sports related merchandise. Equally, the marketfor replica team shirts has extended far beyond the domestic shores ofteams such as Arsenal, the New Y ork Yankees or Knicks, or theDallas Cowboys.
Beyond Cashmore’s useful deﬁnition of globalisation, two other
themes should be considered. First is the globalised market forsporting stars. Since the nineteenth century, top sportsmen and
women have moved around the world in pursuit of the best wages
and opportunities. What began with Scottish footballers moving toEngland and Welsh rugby players moving to play rugby league forcash, has now blossomed into a truly global market. All sportingforms across the world now recruit players from other countries. Thesecond globalising force is the celebrity nature of the sporting hero .
With the growth of global television coverage and the marketing of
sporting goods, sports stars have been sold around the world. Profes-
sionals such as Muhammad Ali, Pele, Bjorn Borg or Tiger Woods
have almost ceased to be national ﬁgures, and have instead becomeglobalised.
See also :colonialism, colonisation, cultural imperialismGLOBALISATION
98