lasted for over a thousand years and formed a common cultural bond
amongst the independent city states that made up ancient Greece, isindicative of the status which the games came to hold in Greeksociety.
Traditionally dating from 776 BC, the original contests, which
were held as sacred rituals, were developed over time to become aﬁve-day-long festival. It is unclear as to how the programme of eventswas expanded from the stadium (a sprint of approximately 200metres) to the range of events which included other foot races,wrestling, long jump, discus, javelin, boxing, pentathlon, chariotracing and pankration, the latter a free-for-all activity in which allwas legitimate except gouging of the eyes and biting. All athletes
competed nude, and women, except for a priestess of Demeter, were
barred from the games. Athletes competed for their city state,although they could declare themselves as representing other states ifthey so wished or if they were paid to do so. They swore an oath toabide by the rules and were expected to be in training for up to tenmonths before the festival. Not unlike today’s athletes, successfulOlympians were treated as heroes. They were also not unlike today’sathletes in that they employed professional coaches, followed specialised
training regimens and received material rewards for their efforts.
Again, like their modern equivalents, the ancient games were notwithout their critics, who worried that athletes were more reveredthan intellectuals, and that brawn was more admired than brain bythe Greeks. Unlike modern Olympians, all participants in the ancientgames had to be at Olympia one month before the beginning of thegames for ﬁnal preparation under the supervision of the hellanodikaeor judges.
Historians have offered a range of theories to explain the devel-
opment of sport in Ancient Greece and speciﬁcally the OlympicGames. These include the games as: funeral celebrations honouringthe dead; part of the cult of fertility associated with the goddessDemeter; a means of military training; and as a ritual sacriﬁce ofhuman energy. It seems likely that all of these may have contributed to the remarkable longevity of the games as different eras found dif-ferent rationales for their continuity.
Three major theorems have been offered by historians to explain
the decline of the games. The ﬁrst is the professionalisation of thegames, the second is the increasing inﬂuence of the Roman Empire,and the third is the rise of Christianity. While the ﬁrst two may havehad limited impact on the decline of the games, it seems more likelythat Christianity, which viewed the worship of pagan gods such asOLYMPICS (ANCIENT)
154