levers have the fulcrum situated between the effort and resistance
points, an example being a ‘see-saw’. Second-class levers have theresistance point situated between the fulcrum and the effort point, anexample being a wheelbarrow. Third-class levers have the effort point
between the fulcrum and the resistance point and are the most
common of body levers. Thus any throwing activity uses the arm as athird-class lever.
The lever arm or moment arm is deﬁned as that portion of the
lever between the fulcrum and the force points. The effort arm is the
distance between the fulcrum and the effort point. The resistancearm is the distance between the fulcrum and the resistance point. Theprinciple of levers states that ‘a lever of any class will balance when
the product of the effort and the effort arm equals the product of the
resistance and the resistance arm’. With few exceptions, the effortarm in skeletal levers is shorter than the resistance arm, and thustends to favour speed and range of movement over effort. Sportsimplements such as golf clubs or tennis rackets tend to magnify theseeffects.
Further reading : Dyson (1986), Hay (1993), Wells and Luttgens (1976)
LIMITED CHANNEL CAPACITY
In applying the general principles of cognitive psychology to infor-
mation processing related to motor skills, a number of basic tenets
apply. Perhaps the most important is that the human information
processing system has a limited capacity. Thus the amount of
information that can be processed at any one time is limited because
of speciﬁc constraints at work in the cognitive stage of skill acqui-
sition . When learning a new motor skill, and even when performing
a well learnt skill in a novel environment, or under conditions of extreme
stress, we require more processing power. Cognitive psychologistssuggest that this is due to the needs of the executive function thatoversees the human information processing system. Limited channelcapacity has signiﬁcant impact on factors such as attention and
memory. What is clear is that effective practice of motor skills helps
reduce attentional requirements, thus providing additional capacity
for other aspects of information processing in the performance ofmotor skills.
Further reading : Kahneman (1973), Magill (1998), Schmidt and Lee (1999)LIMITED CHANNEL CAPACITY
125