many other sports have a long association with gambling and, as
internet betting develops, few sports will be left untouched. Historically
there was petty wagering on many brutal animal sports , but cock-
ﬁghting often involved signiﬁcant betting. The press often featured
sporting challenges in which an endurance athlete would pit his ability
and purse against those prepared to bet that a certain feat was impos-sible. From the eighteenth century both horse racing and pugilismbecame the major vehicles for gamblers, the former being greatlyassisted by the emergence of the bookmaker willing to take bets fromall comers rather than the traditional betting of individuals with eachother. In the inter-war years football pools became popular and offeredsmall-scale gamblers the chance of a huge return for a little outlay. In
recent years the pools have been undermined by the development of
theNational Lottery , in which the exercise of judgement on the abil-
ity of teams has been replaced by simply choosing numbers. The last
few years have also seen the emergence of spread betting , in which
neither winnings nor losses are predetermined at the time of the bet.
Thelawhas played a major role in the relationship between sport
and gambling. For many years ready-money betting away from thesports event itself was illegal as betting shops were not legalised until
1961. Once betting became accepted by the government as a normal
part of consumer spending, it was open to taxation. Unlike incometax, the tax on betting is not progressive in that large winnings havethe same percentage deduction as small ones, though, of course,gambling taxes, like most ones on recreational activities, are volun-tary, as only people who choose to bet need to pay them.
The size of the gambling industry is often exaggerated by a failure
to distinguish between gross and net expenditure, the former
including re-bet winnings and laid-off bets from one bookmaker to
another. Anti-gambling advocates emphasise the unproductive natureof gambling, but economists would draw attention to the employ-ment that is created and the investment that is generated.
See also :spread betting
Further reading : Munting (1996)
GAMES
Games are a form of organised recreational activity, characterised bycompetition and criteria for determining a winner. Unlike play,i nGAMES
92