and social deprivation. The hope was that the clubs might gain local
supporters and the community might beneﬁt from having rolemodels for children and activities that offered an alternative to anti-social behaviour. Although there were initial instances of the resour-
ces being used to improve club facilities without the knock-on effect
for the community, the intervention of the Professional Footballers’Association – who saw employment opportunities for ex-players – inthe mid-1980s rejuvenated the idea. T oday all professional and somesemi-professional clubs in England have a Football in the CommunityOfﬁcer operating the scheme, which is now run by the PFA, theFootball Association and the Football League.
Further reading : Mellor (2001)
FOOTBALL SPORTS
Football in its various guises emerged out of the folk games whereone village might be arraigned against another with the objective ofgetting a ball or other trophy back to their home. It contrasts with
organised games of football with their speciﬁed numbers of players,
ﬁxed time limits and marked-out pitches. Football games were foundin most cultures but the modern game is a British invention of thelate nineteenth century. It was in Britain that the rules were codiﬁed,the ﬁrst clubs established, and organised competitive ﬁxtures begun.Much credit is given to the public schools for ﬁrst codifying the
games of soccer (from association football) and rugger (rugby union)
as part of their games cult and the drive for school discipline. Each
school, however, tended to produce its own variant of football, and
inter-school and university ﬁxtures required the development of asingle set of rules. This came with the formation of the FootballAssociation in 1863, though there was still dispute about whether ornot the ball could be handled. The adherents of this approach even-tually formed the Rugby Football Union in 1871. This was the sameyear that the FA Cup competition commenced.
A football league in which leading clubs in the North and the
Midlands played each other on a home and away basis was establishedin 1888. Soccer remains the only football variant that expressly for-bids the handling of the ball by outﬁeld players.
Rugby itself split in 1895 when what became the sport of rugby
league broke away from the established union game, ostensibly on thegrounds of broken-time payments to players. The RFU feared thatFOOTBALL SPORTS
88