17.1 per cent of children and adolescents aged 2 to 19 years were over-
weight, and 32.2 per cent of adults aged 20 years or older were classedas obese.
The steady rise in rates of obesity has been attributed to environ-
mental factors (lack of activity, greater availability of fast food and soon) and population factors (greater urban areas with higher car usage,two income families and concomitant change in meal patterns and soon). This has given rise to the growth in the number of overweightand obese individuals. Essentially, people in the Western world aredecreasing their levels of physical activity and increasing their calorieconsumption. The growth in calorie consumption has been aided bythe rise in the number of fast food outlets and the culture or super-
sizing. For example, a portion of McDonalds fries in 1960 contained
200 calories, whereas now the standard serving contains some 600calories.
One of the ways of tackling obesity, especially among children, has
been through the promotion of sport and healthy activity. In 2003 amajor campaign was launched in Britain to get all schoolchildrenexercising or taking part in sport for a minimum of two hours perweek. Despite the campaign, which was supported by leading sports
stars and a national newspaper, ﬁgures in 2006 showed that only one
third of school children were actually doing two hours of exercise.Campaigns headed by sports stars to encourage physical activityamongst children as a way of combating obesity have also beenlaunched in Australia (the 1Seven Programme) and in the UnitedStates.
Further reading : Kirk (2006)
OLYMPIC GAMES seeOlympics (ancient), Olympics (modern),
Olympism
OLYMPICS (ANCIENT)
The ancient Olympic Games were part of a very important religiousfestival held in honour of the god Zeus. This festival, held every fouryears at Olympia, was the most important and oldest of the gather-
ings for athletic competition in antiquity. Olympia was important in
that it provided a unique and signiﬁcant religious context (the sanc-tuary of Zeus) for these games and contests. The fact that the gamesOLYMPICS (ANCIENT)
153