LING
Per Henrik Ling (1776–1839) devised a system of gymnastics that
became adopted by the Swedish government and was developed into
an educational tool for schoolchildren by his son, Hjalmar (1820–
1886). It was introduced into Britain in the mid-nineteenth century,but had made little encroachment until the appointment of MissConcorde Lo ¨fring to the London School Board in 1878 and Martina
O¨sterberg similarly three years later. Its essential features were a spe-
ciﬁc starting position for each exercise; every movement then had tobe precise and accurate and completed to a command, before ﬁnish-ing in a predetermined position; each part of the body was worked
equally and exercises increased in difﬁculty and exertion. There was
no free expression, and little continuous movement save for short
bouts of skipping, marching and running. This Swedish system wastaught in the early women’s training colleges, and by 1909 had become
accepted as the recommended form of physical education by theBoard of Education. Indeed it gained widespread acceptance through-out British gymnastics except in the competitive area, where the
German version dominated.
See also :gymnastics, physical education
Further reading : Bailey and Vamplew (1999)
LISTED EVENTS
In the early years of televised sport in Britain, the BBC had a
monopoly, and as the respected national provider, had an easy rela-tionship with the majority of sporting organisations. With the open-ing of Britain’s ﬁrst commercial station, ITV , in 1955, the BBC’sstranglehold on sports coverage was challenged. In response toincreasingly bitter battles over the rights to cover sporting events, thegovernment, sports organisations and television companies accepted alist of ten events which, from 1954, would not be subject to exclusive
rights agreements. This meant that all such events would remain
freely available. The listed events include: the English and Scottish FACup ﬁnals, test cricket, Wimbledon, the Boat Race, the GrandNational and Derby, the football World Cup ﬁnals, the Common-wealth Games and the Olympics. The listed events system has so farwithstood most pressure from satellite and cable providers of televisionLING
126