CO2 and the regeneration of oxaloacetate. As a result of one acetyl
CoA entering and traversing through the cycle, one GTP (guanosinetriphosphate, energetically equivalent to an ATP), one FADH2and three NADH are formed. These reducing equivalents then enter
the respiratory chain (or electron transport chain ) where ATP s
are generated through the process of oxidative phosphorylation
(each NADH results in the generation of three ATPs, and eachFADHZ generates two ATPs). Thus twelve ATP molecules are gen-erated for each molecule of acetyl CoA that traverses through thecycle.
Several factors can be rate limiting to the TCA cycle. This cycle
can only function under aerobic conditions, as oxygen serves as the
ﬁnal oxidant of the reducing equivalents. Thus the cycle can be par-
tially or totally inhibited if oxygen availability is reduced (hypoxicconditions) or totally absent (anoxic conditions) respectively. Thedehydrogenase enzymes of the TCA cycle are also sensitive to theredox (reduction-oxidation) potential in the cell i.e. NADH/NAD+ratio. If this redox potential is high, the dehydrogenases will beinhibited and likewise are stimulated by a decrease in the redoxpotential.
Further reading : Brooks et al. (1996), McArdle et al. (2000)
LACTATE THRESHOLD
A point during an exercise bout of increasing intensity when theblood lactate concentration increases abruptly above resting levels. It
is thought to reﬂect the interaction of the aerobic and anaerobic
energy systems, and is usually expressed in terms of the percentage ofmaximal oxygen uptake (per cent VO
2Max ). Many researchers
consider lactate threshold to be a good indicator of an athlete’spotential for endurance exercise.
LANDSCAPE
For those studying sports geography , the question of landscapes,
their impact on sport and the impact of sport upon them, has been a keyarea of research. Landscapes can take a variety of forms, for examplephysical, social, political and virtual and are a combination of whatcan be seen (the assemblage of objects that make up a landscape) andLACTATE THRESHOLD
118