those who wish to be identiﬁed with a team are exploited in a
monopoly market.
MOTION
Motion, usually deﬁned as the act or process of changing positionwith respect to point of reference, is of three types: linear or transla-tory, angular or rotary, and a combination of these two types knownas general motion. Linear motion occurs when a body or objectmoves from one location to another with all its parts moving in thesame direction, the same distance and at the same speed. There are
very few examples of pure linear motion in sport (which can occur
in a straight line or in a curvilinear pattern) because even in activitiessuch as bobsledding, various body parts change their relative positionduring movement as the sled gains speed during the run.
Angular motion occurs when one portion of an object or body is
stationary and the rest moves about this given point, known as theaxis. Again, pure angular motion is not common, although a ‘giantswing’ in a gymnastic routine on the horizontal bar closely approx-
imates pure angular motion since all parts of the body travel through
the same angle in the same direction in the same amount of time, in acircular path. More typical in sport and physical activity is a combi-nation of linear and angular motion, and as such, is the type ofmotion most commonly analysed. Kinematics is the descriptive ana-lysis of motion, and involves factors such as velocity speed, accelera-tion and distance without reference to the forces responsible for themotion. T eachers and coaches tend to focus their efforts on optimis-
ing these aspects of students’ or athletes’ performances. Kinetics is the
analysis of motion with respect to the forces initiating and alteringmotion, and is based on Newton’s three laws of motion, regardinginertia, acceleration and reaction. Forces that affect motion are grav-ity and friction or resistance, and are important elements in anykinetic analysis, whether such forces be assessed in relation to theanalysis of breast stroke, high jump or kicking a football, or in thedesign of running shoes or racing bikes. The development of high-
speed computers, 3-D camera systems, EMG technology and tele-
metry systems has advanced the study of biomechanics and providedsport scientists and coaches with important information to enhanceathletic performance.
Further reading : Hay (1993), Roy (1992)MOTION
141