PROGRESSIVE RESISTANCE
In developing training programmes to promote gains in both mus-
cular strength and muscular endurance, the principle of overload is
vital. Strength and endurance will only increase when a muscle per-
forms for a given period of time against workloads greater than thosenormally encountered. The basis for all progressive resistance exerciseis the concept of repetition maximum (RM), which is deﬁned as themaximal load that a muscle or muscle group can lift over a givennumber of repetitions before fatiguing. Thus an athlete needs to assesstheir R1VI for any particular load and/or number of repetitions. Themajority of strength training studies have found that the optimal
number of repetitions is between four and eight (4–8RM) and should
be practised in multiple sets (three or more). High-resistance, low-
repetition exercises are used to build muscular strength; low-resis-tance, high-repetition exercises are used to build muscular endurance.
T o achieve the full beneﬁt of such training, proper rest intervals areimportant both between exercises and between training sessions.Insufﬁcient rest results in inadequate recovery and thus reduces theathlete’s ability to exert force. Drugs such as anabolic steroids speed
the recovery rate and enable athletes to train more often and thusreduce training tune to achieve speciﬁc strength and/or endurance gains.
Further reading : Fahey (1997), McArdle et al. (2000), Williams (1998)
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
Concerns about the health and safety of those involved in sport and
physical activity, along with growing concerns about litigation, haveencouraged the increasing use of protective equipment in sports.Both the quantity and the quality of protective equipment haveincreased as the number, type and range of sporting activities and thenumbers of those involved have increased. Thus, in cricket, no bats-man wore a helmet when facing a fast bowler until the 1970s. Inrugby, shoulders were not padded, nor were mouthguards de rigueur
until the 1980s. In squash and basketball, eye protection was unseen
until this period also. Protective equipment is intended to protectvulnerable parts of the body from injury. T ypically this has meant thehead (and particularly the temple and the eyes), the reproductiveorgans, the shins and the feet. However, concern over impact injuriesto joints such as knees, elbows and ankles, as well as areas of softPROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
175