nutrients: energy nutrients, vitamins and minerals, and water. Energy
nutrients are fats, proteins and carbohydrates, and are the basic sour-ces of fuel that provide ATP. Vitamins and minerals are inorganic
compounds, which are necessary for building and repairing body
tissue as well as for proper body function. Thus we need such
minerals as calcium for teeth and bone, iron for preventing anaemia,and potassium for efﬁcient functioning of muscle cells. We needvitamins to ensure the appropriate metabolism of fats and carbohy-drates. Finally, we need water. Water is perhaps the most essential ofall nutrients for human life. We can survive for many weeks withoutfood, but only a matter of days without water. Water is necessary tocontrol body temperature, for energy production, and for waste
elimination. In deciding what our food requirements are, we need to
take account of both our overall nutritional needs and our caloricneeds, as the type of exercise we are involved in determines the typeof energy source we will utilise.
Fats make the greater contribution to energy provision when the
body is at rest or performing low levels of exercise. Carbohydratesbecome a more signiﬁcant source as exercise intensity increases.Thus, for those wishing to lose weight (by reducing fat), low-intensity
exercise of sufﬁcient duration is the recommended method.
Athletes have attempted to improve performance by employing
speciﬁc diets such as ‘carbohydrate loading’, as well as the use of
drinks that contain caffeine, sugar to enhance blood glucose, orelectrolyte preparations to help in maintaining mineral levels.Research in this area of sport science and human performance con-tinues as commercial companies look to market such products.
Further reading : Gibney et al. (2002), Howley and Franks (1997), Williams
(2005)
OBESITY
Obesity has emerged as one of the great health challenges of the latetwentieth and early twenty-ﬁrst centuries. As diets have changed, andthe populations of many Western nations have become more seden-tary, so the average weight of people has increased. The issue ofobesity is of special concern with respect of children. According to
recent American statistics, obesity prevalence doubled in adults
between the years 1980 to 2002. In the same period overweightprevalence has tripled in children and adolescents. Between 2003–2004,OBESITY
152