Further reading : Cashmore (2000), Dunning (2000), Lanfranchi and Taylor
(2001), Maguire (2000), Rowe (2000)
GOAL ORIENTATION
In a scenario that is entirely outcome-driven (e.g. the achievement of
a new personal best performance) the aims of a training programmewould be focused heavily on speciﬁc aims or targets. The process bywhich such targets (goals) are achieved would be important, but onlybecause they are a means to an end. It is important therefore to dif-ferentiate between performance goals and process-orientated goals.
See also :process orientation
GOVERNMENT POLICY
It has often been argued by British governments, most notably duringthe period of Margaret Thatcher’s time as Prime Minister, that sport
and politics are separate entities. This is not however, the case. Gov-
ernments across the world, of all different political persuasions, haveto intervene in sporting matters and evolve policy so that sport isgiven a clear agenda for its role within society. There are two maintypes of government policy. The ﬁrst, which is when government isin reactive mode, produces policies which respond to any given crisisor emergent issue in the political arena. Examples of the reactivemode would be the decision to implement the terms of the Taylor
Report after the Hillsborough tragedy, or the British government’s
decision not to enforce a boycott of the 1980 Olympics in Moscow
despite the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The second major type of
government policy is that which actively seeks to involve centralgovernment in sport, thereby shaping the future provision of facil-ities, the success of the nation’s elite athletes, the improved health ofthe people, and so on. Examples of this approach would be thedecision to establish the Sports Councils, support and funding for
initiatives such as the Sport for All campaign, and government
backing for host cities bidding for the Olympic or Commonwealth
Games . One of the most public government policy initiatives of
recent times was the decision to support, at great expense, London’s
bid to host the 2012 Olympic Games. Equally complex was thegovernment’s policy decision to back the demolition of WembleyGOVERNMENT POLICY
99