proﬁt can be gained by it. It proceeds within its own boundaries of
time and space. Huizinga states that the function of play can be
derived from the two basic aspects under which we meet it: as a
contest for something or as a representation of something. These two
functions can unite in such a way that the game ‘represents’ a contest,
or else becomes a contest for the best representation of something.
As such, games are more formalised forms of play and are char-
acterised by explicit rules, but they are not necessarily characterisedby the production of a different outcome, which is why we are ableto talk about playing games. However, Schwartzman has suggestedthat in order to fully understand play, we will have to separate it fromgames because games ‘rule out the ambiguity, spontaneity and ﬂex-
ibility characteristic of play’ (1978: 320). However, as she states, such
a distinction may be very difﬁcult to deﬁne because play resistsoperationalisation and requires interpretation. Currently, therefore,play is widely held to be an attitude, disposition or stance.
Further reading : Garvey (1977), Harris (1980), Huizinga (1950), Hyland
(1984; 1990), Sage (1979), Schwartzman (1978)
POLITICS
The relationship that exists between politics and sport is a difﬁcultone to deﬁne or quantify. In many academic works that exist on thesubject, such as Allison (1993), the examples that are selected to illus-trate this relationship are those played out most publicly and whichoften focus on extreme or violent politics. As a result, there has beena wealth of work that has been produced which examines the politicsof the Cold War within the Olympic setting, the boycotts of major
sporting events caused by the apartheid controversy, or the function
of sport in violent settings such as Northern Ireland or Palestine.
Sport is so malleable in the cause of politics because of its high mediaproﬁle and its regular setting on an international stage. Speciﬁc illus-trations of the problems caused by the use of sport by politicalregimes and causes would include Hitler’s 1936 Olympics in Berlinwhich were used as a propaganda exercise for his regime, the attackby Palestinian terrorists on the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, orthe British failure to ofﬁcially recognise the state of North Korea
during the 1966 World Cup ﬁnals. In these examples, politics has
been seen as the cause of sporting conﬂict, and therefore worthy ofinvestigation.POLITICS
168