endeavours and victories is important, but so are the emotional ties of
sporting venues and traditions. For example, the cricket fan will feelpatriotic about the symbolism and imagery of a game being played inthe midsummer evening sun on a village green as being representative
of England and Englishness. In this format, sport summons up that
emotional link to the idea of a national identity, which is not neces-sarily being played out on the world stage in international competi-tion. Sport can be used, in the patriotic sense, to symbolise nationalcharacteristics and stereotypes which evoke love and pride, ratherthan aggression and competition. Each nation will have a sportingimagery which evokes feelings of patriotism: for the Australian itmight be the Melbourne Cricket Ground full to capacity in the
build-up to an Australian rules grand ﬁnal, for the French the image
may be the pedethon of the T our de France surging through ﬁelds ofsunﬂowers, while for the Canadian it might be the sports connectedwith logging festivals. Sporting patriotism is a snapshot of who and whatwe are in any given country, and allows us to love our homeland.
Further reading : Cronin (1999), Pope (1997)
PATRONAGE
Patronage can be either of a ﬁnancial or ﬁgurehead variety. Theformer involves altruistic activity by benefactors, usually for reasonsof public pride or civic responsibility. The latter generally involvesclubs and associations seeking to utilise the name and title of theirpatron to demonstrate their position in the social hierarchy of sport.
In the nineteenth century patrons often sponsored professional
sportsmen, particularly pugilists and pedestrians, as part of theirgambling activities.
PEDAGOGY
Pedagogy refers to the study of learning and instruction with a par-
ticular but not exclusive focus upon the learning process, curriculum
design and broader social issues which may pertain to health andphysical education. This is sometimes referred to as ‘learning theory’,and embraces such philosophies as behaviourism, constructivism andhumanism, each of which has contributed much to the developmentof physical education theory and the manner of its application.PATRONAGE
162