interaction or personal development. However, it is not simply ‘free’
time, as many unemployed persons might argue that such enforcedtime free from work does not provide them with true leisure, whichmany believe should encompass activities characterised by a feeling
of comparative freedom. When thinking about leisure as activity, we
often list ‘hobbies’ or pastimes that we choose to be involved inbecause we value and enjoy them. They may offer a means ofdiversion from non-leisure activities, such as work, or an opportu-nity for self-expression or self-development. T o that degree, leisureis not a purposeless activity. However, it is often difﬁcult on thebasis of naming an activity as leisure – for example swimming –when we know that swimming in the role of lifeguard is not the
same as swimming for pleasure. Thus one activity can be viewed in
a number of different ways. In our example, swimming as a life-guard may in fact be considered a work, rather than a leisureactivity.
The concept of leisure as time has been helpful for researchers in
sport and physical activity because it is both a useful and simplemeasure of leisure. However, it cannot be used to address questions ofmeaning nor quality of leisure. It is to confront such issues that
people are asked to deﬁne leisure as experience. In this deﬁnition,
leisure is a state of mind or mental condition in which we ﬁnd free-dom in a freely chosen activity that we undertake for its ownintrinsic reasons. In other words, as Kelly has suggested, leisure is inthe mind of the participant, and is activity that is chosen primarily forits own sake.
Further reading : Brightbill (1960), deGrazia (1964), Dumazedier (1967), Kelly
(1996)
LEVERS
All levers (human or otherwise) are rigid bars which rotate around aﬁxed point, known as a fulcrum, for the purpose of using a relativelysmall force to overcome a relatively large resistance. In the body, thebone is the rigid bar, the joint the fulcrum, and the contractingmuscles provide the force. When analysing movement in sport andphysical activity, it is often convenient to regard segments of an ath-
lete such as an arm, leg or trunk as a simple lever.
Levers are classiﬁed into three types or classes according to the
arrangement of the fulcrum, the force and the resistance. First-classLEVERS
124