the professional stage. These players were often subjected to terrible
racist abuse, which was made more threatening by the pervadingatmosphere of hooliganism . There was also evidence that this ter-
race-based racism was linked to the activities of far-right political
movements such as the National Front.
In the last two decades ‘race’ has become an increasingly margin-
alised term in academia, and while there is still interest in studying
and understanding acts of racism, studies have preferred to focus onthe broader theme of ethnicity .
See also :boycotts, ethnicity, politics
Further reading : Booth (1998), Brooks and Althouse (1993), Coakley (1998),
Cronin and Mayall (1998), Hoberman (1997), Jarvie (2006), Long et al.
(2005), Polley (1998), Williams (2001)
RATIONALISED
The drawing-up of rules and regulations to control sports and games
is symbolic of the nineteenth-century move towards rationalisedsports. Games like mob football, and other forms of non-codiﬁedsports, which had few rules, no referee or umpire, and no time
constraints, are symbolic of the pre-rational period. Once sports,
largely as a result of the controls that emerged from the playing ﬁeldsof the public schools , were placed under the control of rules, played
for a ﬁxed duration and judged by a referee, they were rationalised.This process distinguishes rationalised sports from uncontrolled pop-ular pastimes. The process of rationalisation was aided by the spreadof sports out from the public schools, and through the work oforganisations, such as the Football Association, whose job it was to
act as custodians of the sport.
Further reading : Brailsford (1992), Holt (1989), Lowerson (1993), Tranter (1998)
RATIONAL RECREATION
The movement for rational recreation developed in the mid-nine-
teenth century as a reaction to the rowdy and raucous pastimes of theworking classes. Some promotion of the new activities stemmed froma genuine concern for the ‘lower orders’; others feared for propertyRATIONALISED
182