has involved those coaches and educators who are less concerned
about producing champions and the effects of a ‘champion’ onsporting performance, and are more interested in the effects of sporton psychological development and behaviour. As such they have
looked at and used sport psychology very differently. They have
asked, ‘what are the effects of participating in sport and physicalactivity on the psychological development, behaviour and well-beingof the participant?’
Psychologists working in the areas of sport and physical activity
have adopted a wide range of theoretical and conceptual orientationsfor their ﬁeld, often matching those in the parent discipline. How-ever, as the ﬁeld has developed, four major areas of research and three
major orientations to the ﬁeld have emerged, both in Europe and in
the USA. The four areas of research are in the ﬁelds of personalitymotivation, interpersonal and group processes, and interventiontechniques. The three major orientations to studying sport psychol-ogy are: the psycho-physiological, the social-psychological, and thecognitive-behavioural. These orientations also mirror methodologicaland measurement concerns within the ﬁeld, and are thus importantindicators of the types of debate taking place in the ﬁeld of sport,
psychology of sport, and physical activity over what constitutes
legitimate and useable knowledge.
The psycho-physiological approach emphasises the use of physio-
logical measures such as heart rate, brain wave activity, palmarsweating and muscle action potential to study behaviour (sport per-formances), assuming that these are good measures of psychologicalprocesses. Those adopting a social-psychological orientation assumethat behaviour (sport performance) is determined as a result of com-
plex interactions of the individuals and their psychological make-up
(traits/predispositions) with the social environment in which they areperforming. Those adopting a cognitive-behavioural stance focus onthe cognitions or thoughts and behaviour of the performer. Theyfocus on what an athlete is thinking about, how conﬁdent they arefeeling, how relaxed/stressed they are feeling, and how this impactsperformance. Such approaches lead to emphasising different psycho-logical elements and different approaches to each of the four areas of
research. Thus, with regard to intervention techniques, approaches
ranging from training the mind using biofeedback for the psycho-physiologist, to social-facilitation and social reinforcement studies bysocial-psychological researchers, to approaches looking at causalattributions and self-efﬁcacy by cognitive behavioural researchers, arelikely to be used.PSYCHOLOGY
177