about motivation have ‘one common thread that they all share
[which] is that people are motivated to feel competent, worthy andself-determining’.
Most current theories ﬁt into one of three general orientations
that parallel the approaches to personality theory: the trait (or par-
ticipant-centred) view, the state (or situation-centred) view, and theinteractional view. In the trait-centred approach, motivation is afunction of the personality, needs and goals of the performer. In thestate-centred approach, the situation is the determining factor inmotivation, so that an individual can be highly motivated in onephysical activity such as football but not in another such as swim-ming. However, the viewpoint that is becoming most widely accep-
ted is the interactional view, in that it is in the interaction between
the participant and the situation that we will discover the root ofmotivation.
The major theory of motivation employing an interactional
approach to achievement motivation is need-achievement theory,from which have developed: attribution theory, which focuses onhow people explain their (athletic) successes and failures; achieve-ment goal theory, which asks what success and failure mean to an
athlete; and competence motivation theory, which looks at how
feelings of competence and self-worth inﬂuence motivation. All ofthese theories predict high and low achievers on the basis of theirmotivational orientation. It appears, therefore, that a critical elementaffecting our motivation to be involved in sport and physicalactivity is our motivational orientation. An intrinsic or mastery-
oriented individual looks for challenges to help promote personalmastery of a task, leading to feelings of competence, and the pro-
motion of persistence, intensity and continuing motivation. The
extrinsic or outcome-oriented individual selects less-than-optimal
challenges and focuses on outcome (winning) as a means of jud-
ging capability. Unless successful outcomes are achieved, this orien-tation will tend to diminish persistence, intensity and continuedmotivation.
As such, the fostering of intrinsic motives is essential if we want
to promote lifelong sport and physical activity among all individuals,
especially for recreational purposes. High and low achievers can be
distinguished by their motives, the tasks they select to be evaluatedon, the effort they exert during competition, their persistence, andtheir performance. High achievers usually adopt mastery (tasks) goalsand have high perceptions of their ability and control. Low achieversusually have low perceived ability and control, judge themselves moreMOTIVATION
143