the games as a mass media ‘event’ all suggest that the games’ future is
likely to look no less chequered than its past. In 2012 London willhost the Summer Olympics. The beneﬁts of the games are huge as itwill allow London to regenerate the east end of the city, transform its
transport infrastructure and, if the games perform proﬁtably, leave the
city with a ﬁnancial legacy estimated at £82 million.
Further reading : Barney (1996), Barney et al. (2002), Girginov and Parry
(2004), Guttmann (1992), MacAloon (1981), Miller (2003), Segrave and
Chu (1988), Simson and Jennings (1992)
OLYMPISM
According to the International Olympic Committee,
Olympism is a state of mind, a philosophy even, encompassing a
particular concept of modern sport, according to which sportcan, through an extension of its practice, play a part in thedevelopment of the individual, and of humankind in general. ...
and to strengthen understanding and friendship among peoples.
TheOlympic Games were reformulated by Pierre de Coubertin
as a means of fostering social improvement and contributing to thegeneral welfare and betterment of humanity. This emphasis on thepursuit of social values and moral and ethical goals distinguishes theOlympic Games from all other international sporting festivals andinstitutions, and provides the basis for the games’ philosophy of
Olympism. We ﬁnd important elements of Olympism contained in
the Olympic Creed, the Olympic Motto and the Olympic Oath.
The modern Olympics are perhaps best exempliﬁed by the pursuit
of excellence – a key element of Olympism. The comparative nature
of the Olympic Motto, ‘citius, altius, fortius’, (faster, higher, stronger)suggests the goal of trying to do better than one’s opponent. At thesame time the games are a means of celebrating physical and sportingexcellence. For de Coubertin, there was also the pursuit of spiritual
excellence. In recent times, the pursuit of excellence (and winning a
medal) has often come into conﬂict with spiritual and moral excel-
lence so that issues of drug taking and drug testing have detracted
from the ideals of Olympism. Similarly, the commercialisation of thegames and the possibility of commercial gain which athletic successcan bring have also sullied, in the minds of many, the spirit ofOLYMPISM
156