games the goals for participation originate outside the game in that
people participate not just for fun but also for prestige, recognition orstatus. Generally games have rules , either formal or informal, speciﬁ-
cally as regards the termination and result of the game. Often these
rules are deliberately inefﬁcient in that the objective of the game could
be achieved more easily were it not for their imposition: physicallycarrying the ball to the hole and dropping it in is a more effective wayof holing out than resorting to the vagaries of the putter; but it is not golf.
GAS EXCHANGE
The efﬁcient exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide (O2) between theair and the blood is necessary to ensure that oxygen is delivered tothe working muscles and that CO2 is removed from the working mus-cles. Contact between air and blood is necessary for this to happen,and this contact takes place in the alveoli, the tiny air sacs locateddeep within the lungs. Contact between the alveoli and the pulmonarycapillaries allows for diffusion of oxygen and carbon dioxide acrossthe permeable alveoli capillary membrane.
Further reading : Brooks et al. (1996), McArdle et al. (2000)
GAY GAMES
The Gay Games were inspired by Dr T om Waddell, who organised theﬁrst in San Francisco in 1982. The Gay Games are held every four years
and are open to all gay men and women. They have only ever been
staged in North America, with the exception of the 1998 games inAmsterdam. The overall number of competitors has grown from theinaugural 1,300 to over 11,000. The games are based on the Olympicmodel, and as they have grown in size, have had to become increasinglycommercialised. The budget for the 1998 games was estimated atUS$9.3 million. The Gay Games have served to highlight the cause ofgay rights, and have also heightened awareness of the issues surrounding
AIDS and HIV . Events such as the Gay Games are the embodiment of
many of the arguments put forward by the proponents of critical theory .
See also :discrimination, gender
Further reading : Elling et al. (2003), T ownes (1996)GAY GAMES
93