focuses on developing proﬁciency in three areas: basic movements,
formal exercises (kata) and freestyle sparring. And in the same waythat particular movements or ‘stunts’ in gymnastics bear the style andoften the name of the gymnasts who developed them, so in karate
each of the stylised kata embodies the stylistic contributions of the
master or masters of that style.
The rapid spread and wide appeal of karate led to the development
of the ﬁrst world championships in 1970. However, despite itswidespread appeal and its impact on popular culture as evidenced bythe success of ﬁlms such as The Karate Kid , karate has yet to become
an Olympic sport.
By comparison, judo and tae kwan do have both been adopted as
Olympic sports. Judo ﬁrst appeared in the T okyo Olympics in 1964and tae kwan do in the Seoul Olympics of 1988. Judo was developedby Dr Jigaro Kano in 1882 and (despite its name which means gentle,ﬂexible or yielding way) involves throwing an opponent, applying aneffective stranglehold or pinning the opponent. The techniques ofjudo have been taken from a variety of other martial arts, but likekarate, judo is an attempt to combine mind and body in healthyactivity. Tae kwan do, literally ‘way of hands and feet’ is the national
sport of Korea and has been used as a means of promoting national
and cultural identity following the Japanese occupation of Korea inthe ﬁrst half of the twentieth century. Following the liberation ofKorea after the Second World War, a group of leading Korean martialartists tried to unify their various martial art forms in one style ofhands and feet sparring. In the late 1950s this style of martial art wassystematised and formalised, and became a part of the training ofboth the military and the police. Bearing many of the trademarks of
amateur boxing, with headgear, three-minute rounds, mandatory
‘eight counts’ and a ring, tae kwan do held its ﬁrst world cham-pionships in 1973. Having been a demonstration sport at both theSeoul and Barcelona Olympics, it became a full Olympic sport inSydney in 2000, Korea leading the medal table with three gold andone silver medal. However, the challenge to Korean dominance isalready apparent, with seventeen other countries winning medals.With 50 million practitioners in over 150 countries around the
world, the sport is proving extremely popular.
There is little doubt that the broad cultural appeal of many of the
martial arts, the exposure offered by the Olympics and world cham-
pionships, and the effects of globalisation on sporting forms and
contests, have had a signiﬁcant impact on martial arts around theworld. And while the emphasis on sportsmanship and self-mastery isMARTIAL ARTS
131