and the Sociology of Sport Journal . There are sports sociology societies
in North America, Britain, Europe and Australia, and conferences are
regularly held. The ﬁeld of sports sociology has been one that hascreated many controversies between differing theoretical approaches.
The major theoretical approaches have included functionalism ,
conﬂict theory ,critical theory , and ﬁgurational theory . Each
approach has its own supporters and literatures, and all have focused
on a wide variety of sporting types and themes.
Further reading : Coakley (1998), Coakley and Dunning (2000), Guttmann
(2004)
SPECIALISATION
Three major forms of specialisation have developed in sport. First isthat of role specialisation, in which speciﬁc tasks are allocated toplayers so that one might be a goalkeeper, another striker, positionsoften determined by a player’s physical attributes. In effect, modern
sport has adopted the economic concept of the division of labour.
Historically there were more all-rounders in sports – players good
enough, for example, to be chosen for both their batting and bowling
in cricket – and more sportsmen that excelled at the elite level in
several sports. The demands of modern sport at the top level have
generally forced talented players to specialise in one sport and in oneaspect of that sport. Second, there has been a specialisation of eventsso that only standard distances and formats are universally acceptedfor purposes of record achievements. In 1952 the InternationalAmateur Athletics Federation recognised 64 events; by 1991 this hadbeen reduced to 25. The mile is now the only remaining imperialdistance over which ofﬁcial world records are ratiﬁed; everything else
is metric. Third, there has been the specialisation of land use with the
dedication of facilities for speciﬁc purposes rather than multi-use.Even within a sport, segmentation has occurred, as in athletics wherethe use of lanes was introduced for races of over 100 metres, and ﬁeldevents were banished from track areas.
Contemporary sports performers are rarely all-rounders who can
excel at a wide range of sports. They have usually chosen to con-centrate, and often from a young age, on a particular sport. This
decision is one driven by the need to choose a specialisation. By
specialising in a given sport, the athlete can tailor their training, selectcoaches, equipment and diets, speciﬁcally to bring out the best inSPECIALISATION
201