do we explain success and failure to ourselves and others?’ and ‘What
makes a good team or a good team member?’ are central to ourunderstanding of social behaviour in sport. Sport psychology researchsuggests a number of answers to these questions. In looking at how
our behaviour is affected by those around us, researchers have argued
that the presence of an audience (social facilitation) leads to arousal
which, in turn, leads to the dominant response. Thus for skilled ath-letes the dominant response is likely to be success, and therefore theyare likely to perform better in front of an audience than are unskilledathletes, for whom increased arousal will inhibit performance. How-ever, audiences can be both supportive (home crowd) or disruptive(away crowd) and thus lead to different levels of arousal.
Second, in assessing their own and others’ success and failure, ath-
letes adopt a range of behaviours in their desire to present themselvesto others in a positive manner. As such, athletes may carefully selectthe activities, the teams and the settings in which they are willing toperform, in order to ensure that their self-presentation is positive andtheir concerns over impression management are addressed.
Finally, several factors seem to inﬂuence team dynamics, including
team size, team homogeneity, feelings of cohesiveness and degree of
stability of membership. The continued interaction between social
psychology and sport psychology promises further advances in ourunderstanding of social behaviour in sport.
Further reading : Goffman (1961), Kremer and Scully (1996), Wann (1997),
Zajonc and Sales (1966)
SOCIAL CAPITAL
The use of the term social capital is a way of conceptualising the
intangible resources of a community or group such as its shared
values, the trusted relationships within the collective, and the perso-nal networks that are drawn upon. A major example in sport wouldbe the club and the interaction between its members. What needs tobe considered is whether in community terms the sports club acts as(exclusive) bonding capital rather than as (inclusive) bridging capital.Are the groups formed not just of people interested in a particularsport but of persons of like minds, from the same social class and
neighbourhood or are others reached out to from different gender,
religion and social status? Another issue to be looked at is whetherthe positive aspects of social capital in the form of associationalSOCIAL CAPITAL
199