Jubilee, all of which are still administered by the NPFA. The asso-
ciation is currently the largest charity involved in the promotion ofrecreation and the protection of playing ﬁelds in the country. Itactively campaigns at both the local council and central government
level, and is heavily involved with securing and protecting sports
spaces within the inner cities. The CCPR was formed in 1934, andwas brought together by experts in the ﬁelds of health, education andsport to promote the playing of sport as a method of securing goodhealth. In the post-war years the CCPR established national trainingcentres for various sports across Britain, such as Crystal Palace in1964 and the National Sports Centre for Wales in 1972. With thefounding of the Sports Council, the CCPR redeﬁned its role, and
now functions as a body which lobbies and consults national gov-
ernment in relation to the framing of national sporting policy.
In addition to those associations that were established speciﬁcally to
lobby government and protect or promote speciﬁc concerns, sportingbodies have also long been involved with the process of governmentandpolitics . In addition to drawing up rules, arranging ﬁxtures and
administering their own games, sporting associations and federations
have had to maintain relationships with government. Often such
relationships relate to central government funding for new facilities
or the advance of new talent, but on other occasions they revolvearound speciﬁc political issues. The Football Association in Englandhas been heavily involved in lobbying the government over mattersrelating to crowd safety and hooliganism. In the 1930s, the MCC wascalled to account by both the British and Australian governments inresponse to the arguments caused by the ‘bodyline’ test series. Inrecent years, all British sporting associations and federations have
become more politically astute and organised as they have had to
lobby both central government and the Charities Commission for accessto money from the National Lottery . It is therefore important to
recognise the history, and current practice of those people and organi-sations charged with running sport in the widest context. Their func-tion is not solely to run sport, but also to lobby for and to protect sport.
Further reading : Allison (1993), Coghlan (1990), Evans (1974), Houlihan (1991)
SPORTING CONDUCT
Sporting conduct is becoming the more modern phrase for fair play
but can be regarded also as the process by which fair play aims areSPORTING CONDUCT
207