them. Specialisation is a product of the development of modern
sport, and the accompanying demands of professionalism and intensemedia monitoring of performance. Specialisation is not solely aboutthe choice of sport, but is also concerned with a particular position
on the ﬁeld of play, or style of play and approach in individual sports.
Particular positions, it is argued, have specialised skills and responsi-bilities that are best suited to a speciﬁc type of player. Specialisedequipment, such as gloves for a cricket wicket-keeper, or types ofclub for a golfer, are also products of the ever increasing level ofspecialisation in sport.
See also :Corinthians, modern sport
Further reading : Bale (1992), Coakley (1998), Guttmann (2004)
SPECIAL OLYMPICS
Founded in 1968 by Eunice Kennedy Shriver, Special Olympics is ayear-round sports training and competitive athletic programme for
children and adults with mental retardation. In the early 1960s,
Eunice Shriver started a day camp at her home in Rockville, Mary-land, for people with mental retardation, a group which at that timehad the greatest set of unmet needs in the US healthcare system, andquickly discovered that these individuals were capable of participatingand achieving in sports and physical activities at levels beyond thosethat many experts thought possible or even appropriate. Mrs Shriverhelped organise the First International Special Olympics in Chicago
in 1968. The Special Olympics has grown rapidly and from its
beginnings in the United States, now has accredited programmes inalmost 150 countries around the world.
Special Olympics UK was founded in 1978 and is one of the lar-
gest Special Olympics programmes outside the US. It is the largest
volunteer programme in the UK, with over half a million peopleinvolved. It is also the UK’s largest sports charity for people withlearning disabilities, providing year-round sports training in 24 dif-
ferent Olympic-type sports ranging from alpine skiing to volleyball,
for athletes of all ages and all abilities. Corporate sponsorship hasfacilitated the development of Special Olympics. It differs from theParalympics in that it is authorised to use the word ‘Olympics’ eventhough, unlike the Paralympics, it is for people of all abilities and notjust elite level athletes.SPECIAL OLYMPICS
202