Further reading : Fleishman (1975), Gentile (1972), Guthrie (1952), Magill
(1998), Schmidt and Lee (1999), Singer (1980)
SKILL ACQUISITION
Acquiring the ability to perform motor skills or tasks requires prac-
tice. T o acquire and perform such complex skills as running, jump-ing, catching and throwing requires the integration of sensory andmotor information. Learning such skills appears to take place instages, as learners move along a continuum from novice to expert.Fitts and Posner proposed a three-stage model of skill acquisition. In
the ﬁrst or cognitive stage, the learner must understand the goal of
the motor skill, and the movements and strategies necessary toaccomplish that goal. This stage is marked by a large number of errorsin performance; often gross errors such as ‘missing’ the ball in golf ortennis. In the second or associative stage, movements become moreprecise, errors fewer and less gross in nature. Learners begin to iden-tify some of their own errors, as movements become more integratedand smooth, and limited motor programmes are developed. Motor
programmes may be thought of as blueprints or pre-conceived plans
for a motor act. The ﬁnal or autonomous stage, in which the skill hasbecome almost automatic, requiring minimal attention, is thought tobe the result of the development of enhanced and better-integratedmotor programmes. It is the changes in movement efﬁciencybetween novice and expert, between the cognitive and autonomousstages, and the apparent effortlessness of the highly competent per-former, that distinguishes the skilled athlete.
See also :skill
Further reading : Fitts and Posner (1967), Magill (1998), Schmidt and Lee
(1999)
SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR
With very few exceptions, sport is a social activity; participatinginvolves some form of social interaction. As such, many of the con-cerns of social psychologists regarding social behaviour are of interestto sport psychologists. Answers to such questions as ‘How is ourbehaviour and performance inﬂuenced by those around us?’, ‘HowSKILL ACQUISITION
198