pugilist, became widely known and idolised for their sporting
exploits. In the nineteenth century, and during the slow but steadydevelopment of modern sport, the amateur reigned supreme as the
ideal sporting hero. In the Victorian era it was not solely that some-
one played skilfully or bravely enough to be considered heroic, it was
the manner in which they conducted themselves and what theyrepresented that was all-important. Amateurs who combined manlyattributes with gentlemanly conduct, supreme athletes who couldtake defeat well, and those who played solely for the love, and goodof the game, echoed attributes that were applauded across widerVictorian society.
The more sport that took place, the more opportunities there were
for the creation of heroes. Some heroes were only important so longas they were still active; others entered the collective memory and
became central to the national sporting story. All events, whether
national, such as the FA Cup ﬁnal or the Grand National, or global asin the case of the Olympics, presented the public and the media withnew heroes. With the advent of the sporting professional , the
nature of the hero was transformed. Increasingly the hero was evidentnot solely on the ﬁeld of play, but on advertising billboards, in the
newspaper gossip columns and on ﬁlm. In Britain the ﬁrst such
sporting hero was Dennis Compton, whose fame was added to by hisskill on both the cricket ﬁeld and the football pitch. Professionalsportsmen and women, especially in team sports, were often onlyrecognised as heroes in their local area. While many followers offootball might recognise Jackie Milburn as a great player, it isdoubtful that he would be recognised by many as a national hero. Inthe northeast of England however, Milburn’s status as hero is
unquestioned. The fascination with ‘home grown’ sporting talent is
interesting, as it offers a different pathway for the sporting hero.Footballer Steve Bull never played in the Premier League, was selec-ted for England on only a handful of occasions, yet in his nativeWolverhampton possesses the status of a living God. Bull undoubt-edly made a good living from his professional career, but his localisedheroic status demonstrates the subjective nature of the sporting hero.Muhammad Ali, Mark Spitz, Jack Nicklaus or Ayrton Senna would
be considered by many as global sporting heroes; others would dis-
agree with that list and suggest their own. This subjectivity and thecontest between the local, national and global, make any concisedeﬁnition of the sporting hero difﬁcult.
From the 1960s, the tabloid press, assisted by television and the
increased interest with the celebrity, created a whole new generationSPORTING HEROES
209