The key people behind the development of amateurism appear to
have been the new Victorian administrative elite. As Holt (1989:110–
11) notes,
Just as the civil service was now open to all who had the classical
education required to pass the entrance examination, so the run-
ning of sport was in practice conﬁned to those with the necessary
time, income and organisational experience. Very few outside theliberal professions had such qualiﬁcations and even then a mea-
sure of social inﬂuence via the old-boys network was important.
Thus we ﬁnd institutions such as the Amateur Athletics Association,the Football Association and the Amateur Rowing Association beingset up and run by such individuals during the mid-to-late Victorian era.
It is important to note that amateurism was never an uncontested
notion, nor were negative responses to it always provided by profes-
sionals or the working classes. In the split between the Northern
Union and the Rugby Football Union over broken-time payments,we ﬁnd a geographic fault line in the amateur versus professionaldebate. In the split between the Amateur Rowing Association andthe National Amateur Rowing Association, we ﬁnd a split based onoccupation and not on social or economic circumstances. Hugginssuggests that in the years from 1850 to 1910 few sports were purelyamateur. Occasionally, upper-middle class amateurs founded organi-
sations speciﬁcally to preserve the nature of their activities and limit
access to them. Wandering cricket clubs such as the Band of Brothersand the Free Foresters are examples. In other cases, such as in thefounding of the Corinthians Club, the Barbarians Rugby FootballClub and the I Zingari Cricket Club, they wished to distance themselvesfrom developments in association football, rugby union or cricketthat they found to be diminishing or tarnishing the amateur ideal.
Throughout the twentieth century, the amateur ideal has been
eroded as high-level performance has become increasingly important
in sport, as sport has become increasingly available to the masses, andas working at sport has become laudable and to be a professionalathlete (as opposed to a ‘rank’ amateur) has been a sign of prestige.Being an amateur was an ascribed status, being a professional is anachieved status.
See also :professionalism
Further reading : Allison (1980; 2000), Cannadine (1998), Collins (1998), Holt
(1989), Huggins (2000), Taylor (2006), Wigglesworth (1992; 1996)AMATEURISM
13