afforded from gate money alone. Without the redistribution of test
match and one-day international cricket revenue, most countycricket teams would be in the red.
SUPERSTITION
Although generally the most skilled or determined participant willtriumph, occasionally luck can also have a role in determining thewinner of a game. Indeed, getting the ‘rub of the green’ has enteredboth sporting terminology and idiomatic language. This has led someplayers to adopt superstitions to secure good luck or prevent bad luck
affecting their performance. Some like to have their set place in the
dressing room, put certain equipment or garments on ﬁrst, and enterthe playing area in a particular order. Others will wear charms andtalismans, eat the same meal before playing, or have a certain routinethat must be followed. There is no evidence that any of these super-stitions inﬂuence luck, but they may assist the athlete psychologicallyto be in the right frame of mind to perform.
While there is unlikely to be any physical advantage to such
behaviour, sport psychologists point to the psychological effect thatsuch behaviours can bring to an athlete. First, athletes tend to goback to behaviours which have been connected with athletic successin the past, or which they believe will prevent them from having badluck in the future. Superstitious behaviours are a means of trying tocontrol, or at least limit, the element of luck or chance in the out-come. In terms of attributions, superstitious athletes are trying toattribute positive outcomes that can be thought of as being the result
of chance or luck to their own superstitious behaviours. As such, they
are attempting to gain some control over this attribute of sportingoutcome.
Second, many athletes have noted that superstitious behaviours,
like individual rituals , are means of controlling pre-contest anxiety
and giving the athlete something speciﬁc to focus on over which theyhave some control. In some cases, the superstition is used as a meansof focusing and elevating arousal, while in others it is viewed as a
means of dissipating anxiety and helping to relax the athlete. As such,
superstitions and rituals are individual-speciﬁc, but may also showsimilarities among athletes in speciﬁc sports. Thus, while for aparticular cricketer having to ‘pat the crease’ ﬁve times before look-ing up to face the bowler may be an individual superstition, it is awidely held superstition amongst many cricketers that the score 111SUPERSTITION
217