of furthering the interests of all parties and the public interest. In
sport the case is argued that labour market controls assist in promot-ing the equality of competition .
A prime example of a restraint of trade process was revealed when
Kerry Packer, the Australian media magnate, took the InternationalCricket Council and the T est Cricket Control Board to the HighCourt. In 1977, Packer, having failed to secure exclusive rights totelevise Australian test cricket, signed thirty-ﬁve elite players to par-ticipate in a new competition that he called World Series Cricket.The reaction of the ICC and the TCCB was to ban those playersfrom county cricket and all ofﬁcial international cricket. The HighCourt ruled that these decisions were in restraint of trade as they
unreasonably prevented the players from pursuing their living as
professional cricketers, particularly as the authorities had neverguaranteed the players’ future employment, nor stipulated in theircontracts that they could not play for a private promoter such asPacker.
See also :law
RETAIN AND TRANSFER
The retain and transfer system was a player reservation system, moti-vated by a desire to ensure competitive balance by reducing theconcentration of star players in a few clubs. At the end of each play-ing season clubs drew up a list of players that they wished to retainand those that were open to transfer. Those to be retained had no
option but to stay with the club or they could be excluded from
playing at all at the elite level. Those open to offers could not choosewhich club they wanted to go to; that was a matter of negotiationbetween the existing employer and any potential employer. Thatrestrictive practice has now been abandoned. Freedom of contract(and the Bosman ruling) allows out-of-contract players to move toanother club if they so desire.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Participation in sport and physical activity, at any level, involves adegree of risk, because of the possibility of accident or injury toparticipants, spectators and property. The application of risk man-RETAIN AND TRANSFER
190