fact that a number of these ‘extreme’ a ctivities have been termed ‘outlaw’
sports is because they have been banned in certain places due to their
level of danger. The terms ‘adventure’, ‘risk’, ‘extreme’, and ‘outlaw’ allbear witness to the search for thrills and the underlying ethos of freedom
from authority and authority ﬁgures (such as coaches, managers, trainers
and administrators who control traditional sport), which best exem-plify both the motivations and the attitudes of many extreme athletes.
The list of adventure/risk/extreme sports continues to grow as
such activities become more widely practised. Among the best
known adventure sports are eco-challenge and sport climbing, bothof which pit individuals against nature and the environment. In eco-challenge, contestants traverse difﬁcult and unfamiliar terrain, using
canoes, rafts, kayaks and even mountain bikes as they challenge
themselves over a number of days to complete a course. This test ofman against nature is often conducted in exotic and ‘out of the way’places, where control of the environment is limited and where pre-dictability of outcome is very limited. By contrast, sport climbing,while closely related to rock climbing, requires participants to climbartiﬁcial rocks, thereby standardising the events and offering somedegree of uniformity of contest among participants who compete in
tests of speed, strategy and difﬁculty.
Amongst the major risk sports are those which have developed
from recreational activities such as bungee jumping, sky surﬁng and
even barefoot water ski jumping, where points are awarded on thebasis of ‘stunts’ or tricks performed during the activity. In bungeejumping, this involves ‘diving-type’ moves such as twists, turns andsomersaults, on which a performer is judged. Inspired by the vinejumpers of Pentecost Island, and ﬁrst attempted in Britain with jumps
off the Clifton Suspension Bridge in 1979, this sport is thought to
have developed in Australia. Sky surﬁng, which involves athletesbeing videotaped by a team-mate as they perform stunts on a surf-board whilst free falling from about 4,000 metres, was developed inFrance. However, while many Western nations, including Britain,have inﬂuenced the growth and development of extreme sports, nonehas been more inﬂuential than the United States. In the 1970s and1980s, a teen culture of risk and rebellion against the established and
traditional institution of sport was largely responsible for the growth
of extreme sports, from recreational activities of a few ‘outlaws’ to theproliferation of such sports and the organising of them into festivalsand games such as the X-Games and the Gravity Games.
Activities such as BMX dirt biking and jumping, in-line skating,
mountain-biking, street-luge, skate-luge and skateboarding, wereADVENTURE SPORTS
4