See also :religion
Further reading : Holt (1989), Holt and Mason (2000), Polley (1998)
SENIORS’ SPORT seeageism, veterans
SEXISM
Sexism is the term used to denote discrimination, in any aspect of
life, which is based on a person’s sex. Most countries have laws that
legislate against sexual discrimination with respect of employment or
access to opportunity. However, sport is often seen as an arena wheresexism is still a regular problem.
A common criticism of the sporting world, in terms of sexist atti-
tudes, are the differential rewards that are available to men and womenathletes. In tennis for example, the winner of the men’s championshipat Wimbledon received prize money of £655,000 whereas thewomen’s champion won the lesser amount of £625,000. Such atti-
tudes are also reﬂected in the media coverage of sport. Men’s sports
receive far greater coverage than those of women. While every gamewas shown live on British television during the 2006 men’s footballWorld Cup, not a single game in the women’s football World Cupwas shown live on terrestrial television. A lack of exposure forwomen’s sport means that attendances and the value of sponsorshipdeals remain low, and there are fewer high proﬁle women role modelsavailable for girls.
Although major international sporting bodies such as FIFA and the
IOC have rules that oppose sexism, leading ﬁgures in sport have
often made comments that were construed as sexist. For example, in2005, Lennart Johansson, the President of UEFA, stated his beliefthat women’s football could be sold to a greater audience given that‘Companies could make use of a sweaty, lovely looking girl playingon the ground, with the rainy weather.’ In a similar vein, the Pre-sident of FIFA, Sepp Blatter, argued in 2004 that women’s football
needs different sponsors from the men’s game and that it needed to
attract fashion and cosmetics companies. T o do this, he argued thatwomen players should be kitted out in ‘more feminine uniforms ...
tighter shorts, for example’.
Organisations such as the Womens Sports Foundation in Britain
and the United States both work to promote the involvement ofSEXISM
195