coverage improved with the advent of video editing from the 1960s,
colour television from 1968 and digital technology from the 1990s,but the improvements in satellite and transmitting technology haveallowed for globalised live coverage and ever wider receivership.
Between 1950 and 1960, television ownership in Britain increased
from 2 to 82 per cent. In the US the growth was from 10 per cent in1950 to 96 per cent by 1963.
As most television companies in the world rely heavily on adver-
tising for income, it was inevitable that sports events would attract
the attention of advertisers. In 1947, Ford and Gillette paid $65,000to sponsor the baseball World Series, and the cost of such exclusivesponsorship has been spiralling ever since.
T wo major issues have come to dominate the television/sport
relationship in the past two decades. First is the issue of exclusive
rights. T elevision companies can boost viewing ﬁgures and advertis-ing revenue by being the sole provider of coverage of any givensports event. T o win such exclusive rights costs a huge amount ofmoney. In 1998, the US rights to the coverage of NFL football wereworth $2.2 billion, while the global rights for Olympic and footballWorld Cup ﬁnals have both exceeded $10 billion. T o retain sports
coverage, broadcasters have had to dedicate ever-greater proportions
of their revenue to buying sport. The second major contemporaryissue, that of cable, digital and satellite television coverage of sport ondedicated channels, has had an impact on the price of sporting rights.In Britain, and elsewhere across the globe, the television empires ofmen such as Rupert Murdoch, Kerry Packer, Silvio Berlusconi andT ed Turner have released large funds solely to secure the rights tosporting events as a way of ensuring the success of their non-terres-
trial television ventures. By preserving coverage for those who have
subscribed to their channels or paid speciﬁcally to watch a one-offevent, the non-terrestrial providers are limiting access to sport.
The future of sport on television offers many unanswered questions.
Sporting clubs and associations need the money paid to them forexclusive rights, so that they can pay wages and develop new talent.The television companies subsequently pass on to viewers and spon-sors the costs of buying the rights. The global television market for
sport appears to have no bounds. However, there are serious issues to
be addressed about free access to television coverage of major events,and the impact that the power of television will have on minoritysports such as rugby league, women’s golf or Australian rules football.
See also :listed events, mediaTELEVISION
224