industry receives special exemption from the government’s anti-
monopoly legislation.
Across the world sporting authorities have introduced many reg-
ulations designed to maintain competitive balance. That is, the
authorities have taken measures to ensure that on the ﬁeld competi-
tion is not too unequal. It is believed that the greater the uncer-
tainty of outcome (match or seasonal) the greater will be the
spectator interest, and, hence, the greater the chance of aggregateproﬁt maximisation within the industry. Belief in the uncertainty ofoutcome idea explains to a large extent why sporting authoritiesrestrict competitive behaviour in a way that would not be possible in‘normal’ industries.
T o some extent the rules adopted reﬂect the fact that the sporting
league is a cartel . Rules are needed in order to maintain ‘good
practice’ and for the league to operate effectively. Thus sporting
authorities have to establish playing rules and generate a ﬁxture list.The league may also be required to rule on the selection andemployment of players by clubs, and control the number of clubs in aleague and their precise location. Sporting leagues also determinerules for the allocation of revenues. But certain restrictions have gone
beyond the basic rules for ‘good practice’. Most notably, the reserve
clause in North American sports and the retain and transfer system
in English association football, served to restrict the mobility of
labour and keep down player salaries. Recent application of Eur-opean law suggests that such special treatment will not be allowed tocontinue.
See also :rules
RELIGION
Religious philosophy and practice has had a signiﬁcant inﬂuence onthe character and even the existence of sports in Britain, particularlyin the restrictions of the Puritan age and later in the promotion ofcompetitive sport in reaction to the Industrial Revolution.
Religion is deﬁned as a set of beliefs, symbols and practices, which
is centred around the idea of the sacred. This serves to unite the fol-lowers of any given religion into a socio-religious community. Wes-tern society has been dominated by the ideas of Christianity ascentred around the established Anglican and Catholic churches.Elsewhere in the world, a host of other religions have dominated,RELIGION
185