The Special Olympics Oath is ‘Let me win. But, if I cannot win,
let me be brave in the attempt. ’
Further reading : Klein et al. (1993)
SPEED
Simply deﬁned, speed is distance travelled in a speciﬁc amount of
time. It is an average since it does not take account of variations ofspeed over the entire period, and thus is expressed as distance dividedby time. For human beings an average walking speed is about three
miles per hour, and an average jogging speed about six miles per
hour, while high level athletes can typically sprint at about 22 milesper hour over 200 metres. While resistance training and plyometricexercises are often used, speed cannot be greatly enhanced throughtraining but by the same token nor does it decline substantiallythrough detraining, but rather as a product of ageing. Speed orswiftness of motion is a signiﬁcant component of many sports. Armspeed is an important attribute for fast bowlers in cricket and pitchers
in baseball just as leg speed is an important attribute for almost all
ﬁeld games since speed is so difﬁcult to defend against. Speed plays a
signiﬁcant role in human culture as exempliﬁed in the Olympic
motto, ‘citius, altius, fortius’, (Faster, Higher, Stronger). The 100metres is often referred to as the ‘blue ribbon’ event of the Olympicsand touted as identifying the world’s fastest human. In fact our fasci-nation with all speed records (human, animal, and machine) is indi-cative of the importance of speed as a cultural phenomenon.
SPONSORSHIP
Sponsorship involves a commercial decision to provide funds in cashor kind to a sports organisation or player in return for securingpublicity and product awareness. In the nineteenth century, racemeetings often featured races sponsored by local innkeepers and tra-
desmen who stood to beneﬁt from an inﬂux of visitors to the area.
Modern sponsorship of horse racing developed from the 1950s whenWhitbread brewers, Hennessey distillers and others in the alcoholtrade began to fund major races. T oday, as in many sports, sponsor-ship is indispensable to the racing industry, with jockeys, horses,courses and races all receiving this form of ﬁnancial assistance. TheSPONSORSHIP
203