educational aim is to provide all children with the opportunity to
develop skills, understanding and a sense of worth as a participant insport. Others take this further and offer students an array of rolesensuring that they also become skilled and knowledgeable as captains,
coaches, managers and even match reporters. Hopefully they will also
become more educated as sports spectators and critical consumers ofthe sports media. Ideally, although often separate from physical edu-cation in the school curriculum, it should reinforce the educationalvalues of that discipline.
Further reading : Penney et al. (2005), Siedentop (1994)
SPORT FOR ALL
In 1972, the Sports Council , Scottish Sports Council and Sports
Council for Wales all launched the Sport for All campaign. The aim
was to promote, across the United Kingdom, wider public awarenessof the value of sport and physical ﬁtness. The message of Sport for
Allwas a dual one: sport as part of everyone’s life, and access to sport
for disadvantaged or marginalised groups such as women, the disabledor the economically deprived. In addition to increasing active parti-cipation in sport, the campaign also sought to improve facilities acrossthe country. During the lifetime of the campaign, most city, townand county councils sought to either improve existing sports andleisure facilities or build new ones.
SPORTING ASSOCIATIONS
As many Western nations have not, until recent decades, extolled thevirtues of a clearly laid out policy plan for sport in their country,there has always been a plethora of different sporting associations thathave effectively functioned as pressure groups in an attempt to shapegovernment policy. In Britain, such groups have included theNational Playing Fields Association (NPFA), the Central Council for
Physical Recreation (CCPR), the Youth Sport Trust and a host of
others covering issues such as women in sport, access for the disabledand equality for lesbians and gays. The NPFA was founded in 1925.As a charity, its aim was to protect playing ﬁelds and other openspaces that could be used for sporting and recreational activities. In1935, George V presented 500 ﬁelds to the nation to mark his SilverSPORT FOR ALL
206