SPORTSMANSHIP
A player who exhibits sportsmanship epitomises the best aspects of
fair play. Such players obey not only the rules of the game, but also
adopt a code of playing within the unwritten ones which ordain
social conduct and the etiquette of the game. Hence footballers
would not score a goal while an opposition defender was lyinginjured on the ground; a batsman in cricket would walk before theumpire’s decision if he knew that he had hit the ball for a catch; and ayachtsman would abandon a race to rescue an opponent who hadcapsized. Such behaviour is admired rather than required. These daysit would be more appropriate to refer to sportspersonship.
See also :fair play, sporting conduct
SPORTS MEDICINE
The branch of medical care that is concerned with the effects ofexercise and sport on the human, and focuses speciﬁcally on the
diagnosis, treatment and prevention of illness and injury associated
with participation in sport and physical activity (Strauss 1984).Founded in 1928, the International Federation of Sports Medicinewas the ﬁrst organisation to address the various concerns of thoseresponsible for the well-being of athletes. The American College ofSports Medicine, founded in 1954, has since become the major forcein professionalising the ﬁeld of sports medicine. The aim of all thoseinvolved in sports medicine has been to help athletes optimise their
performance whilst minimising danger and risk of illness or injury.
Sports medicine typically encompasses four major areas of exper-
tise: the preparation of an athlete; prevention of injury or illness;
diagnosis and treatment of injury; and rehabilitation. Preparation ofan athlete involves both physical and psychological readiness. Thusboth physical conditioning, designed by exercise physiologists todevelop appropriate strength, ﬂexibility, speed and endurance; andpsychological conditioning, involving mental preparation such as
mental imaging and stress reduction techniques developed by sport
psychologists, are now widely employed in the preparation of athletes.
Prevention of injury or illness has become an increasingly sig-
niﬁcant aspect of sport, as maintaining the health and well-being ofhighly paid professional athletes, who represent a signiﬁcant invest-ment for professional teams, has become a high priority. ConcernSPORTS MEDICINE
211