such as Islam. During the late nineteenth century, and into the
twentieth century, there was an assumption that belief in religionwould wane, and that societies would become secular . While this is
true of many Western industrialised nations, it is not the whole story.
The formal churches have seen a downturn in attendance, but other
informal versions of Christianity have proved very popular. Acrossthe world, fundamentalist forms of religions such as Islam have gainedin popularity, and have become increasingly powerful politically inthe nations of the Middle East and Africa.
The Puritans believed that many traditional sports and games
were profane, cruel and immoral. In particular they preached aboutthe importance of hard work and the moral corruption of idle play
and violent games. Whilst recreation which reinvigorated mind
and body was considered legitimate by the Puritans, leisure activ-
ities that were regarded as wasteful and irreverent became primetargets for their denunciation. Consequently, many traditional pas-times were either suppressed or radically adapted, whilst sports onSundays were generally banned. The Puritan philosophy proved anenduring legacy and paved the way for the civilising and moder-nising process of British sport. It took another century before the
struggle against cruel sports, initiated by the Puritans, was com-
pleted with the outlawing of the most notorious animal sports in
the 1830s.
During the early period of the Industrial Revolution, church lea-
ders actively discouraged workers from any participation in sports and
games. Emphasising the Puritan work ethic, most continued topreach the importance of hard work in contrast to the corruption ofsport and idleness. This attitude of disapproval towards sports parti-
cipation for the masses only changed when concerns were raised
about the physical health of factory workers in the middle of thenineteenth century. In contrast to their traditional condemnation ofsports, clerics now became advocates of physical exercise in theinterest of good health, higher productivity and subservient manners.A new religious tenet emerged. Generally known as muscular
Christianity , it asserted the positive connotation of bodily strength
and power. It maintained that a strong and healthy body had religious
signiﬁcance, since physical ﬁtness was required to meet the demands
of godly work and obedient behaviour. Physical weakness, according tothis new doctrine, was associated with moral and spiritual deﬁciency.By contrast, physical activities and team sports were promoted as ameans to foster moral character, good health, gentlemanly behaviourand patriotism.RELIGION
186