Thus a schema is an abstract rule or generalisation used to guide
behaviour.
Schmidt has posited that there are four pieces of information that
are pertinent to our abstractions. These are: the initial conditions
related to the response; the response speciﬁcations; the sensory con-
sequences; and the response outcome.
According to Schmidt’s conceptualisation, two schemes are critical
in controlling movement: a recall schema and a recognition schema.The recall schema sets the parameters necessary in the initiationand production of a movement. The recognition schema continuesand terminates a movement, and is used as a means of assessingfeedback about a movement. Schmidt’s theory suggests that we keep
generalised knowledge of movements, such as throwing and catching,
stored as schema and then construct our responses to any givenmovement task based on our recall of similar movements and therecognition feedback we obtain either during or after completing amovement.
Further reading : Magill (1998), Schmidt (1975), Schmidt and Lee (1999)
SECULAR
Religion played a key role in supporting the early development ofmodern sport. In institutions such as the English public schools , the
religious ideology that underpinned sporting activity was veryimportant, and crystallised in phrases such as muscular Christianity .
Such speciﬁc developments of a religious basis for sport were under-
pinned by a society-wide embrace, during the Victorian era, of
moralistic Christian living. As a result of this religious ideology, sportswere applauded for their constructive and worthwhile values. In thetwentieth century, Britain, and many other countries, underwent aprocess of secularisation. A secular society is one where all kinds ofreligion, but especially the established religion of the state – in Brit-ain, the Church of England – have become less powerful andimportant. Britain is now considered a secular state: for most people,
religion is not an important or central part of their lives, and the
Church of England has little impact on the policies of the govern-ment. The secularisation of society can be observed in sport as theideas of muscular Christianity and the notion that recreation shouldhave worthwhile moral values have all but disappeared. Religion is,for most people, not a part of their sporting lives.SECULAR
194