particularly ales and porters, was positively encouraged as a perceived
aid to strength and stamina. The UK Sports Council has legislatedagainst the use of alcohol as a performance-enhancing drug in thoseareas where there is an advantage to be gained from its use as an anti-
anxiety drug, an isometric muscular strengthener, and for improving
steadiness in ‘aiming’ sports.
Undoubtedly the alcohol industry has brought beneﬁts to British
sport: at the elite level via major sponsorships of events, teams andleagues; and lower down the sporting pyramid by assistance in theconstruction of club premises and the support of junior coaching. Y etat the same time there have been less positive aspects to the rela-tionship through crowd disturbance from ‘lager louts’, the promotion
of drinking to excess, and the risk of alcoholism to sportspersons and
others.
Further reading : Collins and Vamplew (2002), Dixon and Garnham (2005),
Vamplew (2005a)
ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE
The Alexander T echnique was devised in the late nineteenth centuryby Frederick Matthias Alexander, a Tasmanian actor who suffered
from vocal cord problems that threatened his career. He found that if
his head and body were properly aligned he no longer had difﬁcultieswith his throat, and his breathing, voice and posture all improved. Itis not a form of exercise, but a method of moving that realigns thelimbs and improves balance and coordination. By reducing physicaltension, it also helps ease stress and create feelings of calmness andconﬁdence. Central to the technique is learning how to loosen theneck and allow the head to balance freely on top of the spine.
ALT -PE
A useful means of accessing current views/data on physical educationworldwide is to look at ALT -PE. It is part of the newsgroup servicecarried by most e-mail browsers and requires the user to ‘subscribe tonewsgroups’. This is a free service but, as it does not appear to be
moderated, caution should be exercised in utilising the contents. In
North America and elsewhere ALT -PE (Academic Learning TimePhysical Education) also refers to a unit of time in which a pupil isALT -PE
11