Organised religion played a major role in the initial development
and sustenance of football in particular. Clerics from across the reli-
gious spectrum saw football as an important source of moral, spiritualand physical education, and many early clubs were in some way
connected to church or chapel. Several professional clubs, including
Aston Villa, Barnsley, Bolton Wanderers, Glasgow Celtic and Wol-verhampton Wanderers, owe their origins to religious organisations.Although the conﬂicting demands placed on players by religiousobligations (such as attendance at a speciﬁc place of worship) and thesearch for sporting success led to many sides breaking away from thehost institution, religious bodies and their offshoots remained majorsponsors of the amateur game well into the twentieth century.
Nevertheless, the role of religion in inﬂuencing sporting activities has
declined from the late nineteenth century, when the combinedimpetus of the Industrial and Darwinian revolutions had producedwidespread urbanisation and secularisation in Britain. A prohibitionon Sunday sport remained the last bastion of the Church, but this toocollapsed as generally the Church has had a lessening inﬂuence on allaspects of life in modern Britain.
The promotion of Christianity through sport was also embraced
by organisations such as the Y oung Men’s Christian Association(YMCA) and by the Catholic Church for immigrants in manyinner-city areas in North America and Europe. Religious groupsand organisations have been keen to link the discipline and moralityof sport with a belief in, and support for, the Church. At the elitelevel, many athletes have viewed their religious beliefs as an integralpart of their athletic lives. Organisations for Christian elite athleteswere ﬁrst set up in the 1950s. These included the Sports Ambassa-
dors (1952), the Fellowship of Christian Athletes (1954) and
Athletes in Action (1966). Since the mid-1970s, every NFL teamin the United States has employed a chaplain to minister to theplayers.
Many sports people have embraced non-Christian religions. In the
1960s, Cassius Clay changed his name to Muhammad Ali when heconverted to Islam, and in the 1990s Mike T yson also converted toIslam. For many elite athletes there is a clear link between their skills
in their chosen sport and their religious beliefs.
See also :muscular Christianity, secular
Further reading : Higgs (1995), Hoffman (1992), Levine (1992), Mangan and
Walvin (1987), Peiser (2000), Prebish (1993)RELIGION
187