willing older sports participants were the arguments of many in the
medical profession. Prior to the Second World War many healthspecialists argued that sport was too rough and involved over-exertionthat would damage the ageing body.
Thankfully these negative views of the ageing body and sport have
changed. People live longer, and most Western industrialised societiesnow have a dominantly elderly population that lives well beyondretirement age. The medical profession now argues that an active life,including sport and exercise, will give good or improved health tothe elderly. The embrace of sport by the ageing population has beenassisted by the rapid growth in the number of gym clubs across theWestern world, and the provision of public facilities such as swim-
ming pools. Role models have been provided by senior leagues in
sports such as tennis and golf, which receive money from sponsor-
ship and are regularly aired on television .Olympics -style athletics
gatherings that are based around the elderly allow for competitionand record setting, as competitors are classiﬁed on the basis of theirage. The most important effect of the embrace of sport by the ageinghas been to challenge the assumption that old age necessarily means alife of inactivity and illness. This has been the most central challenge
to the ageist argument that old age leads to the end of physical
activity and sporting competitiveness.
See also :discrimination
Further reading : Wearing (1995)
AGENTS
Players are often at a disadvantage in negotiations with experiencedmanagement over the terms and conditions of their contracts. Addi-tionally, some players feel that direct negotiations might harm theirworking relationship with club management. In recent years boththese factors have led to the employment of agents, specialised in thearea, who represent their clients in discussions with clubs and other
employers, usually obtaining a commission from any deals that they
negotiate. They are in a ﬁduciary relationship with their clients andmust always act in their best interest. Hence, for example, they canonly act for one party within a negotiation. Although in the UnitedStates some agents have been guilty of manipulative practices toinduce players to sign with them, this has not emerged as a majorAGENTS
8