problem in British sport. In some sports, licensing systems have been
introduced in order to ensure propriety. In Premier League football,for example, special permission to act as an agent must be obtainedexcept for close relatives, FIFA-licensed agents and barristers and
solicitors. Several restrictions are imposed, for instance, that agree-
ments between agent and client must be in writing, can last only twoyears, and cannot be transferred to another parry.
See also :sporting heroes
Further reading : Greenﬁeld, Osborn and Taylor (2001), Steinberg (1991)
AGGRESSION
Despite the fact that many coaches will tell their players that they
need to be more aggressive if they are to be successful, sport psy-chologists suggest that aggression is one of the most persuasive nega-tive aspects of sporting performance. Aggression can be thought of as‘any form of behaviour directed toward a goal of harming or injuring
another living being who is motivated to avoid such treatment’
(Baron and Richardson 1994: 7). In sport, an aggressive act is gen-erally deﬁned as an act performed to harm or injure, physically,verbally or psychologically.
There have been three classic approaches to explaining aggression:
instinctual, drive reduction and social learning. Instinct theorists
contend that aggression is innate and that sports, and particularlycontact sports, may well attract those who are naturally aggressive,
since it is an aggression-releasing environment, and the opportunity
for catharsis or aggressive relief. Drive reduction theories reﬂect thebelief that aggression is a response to some external drive, such as abuild-up of frustration caused by the inability to attain a desired goal.Thus we ﬁnd that aggression is more likely to occur late in a contestwhen players realise that they are not going to attain their goal ofwinning. Social learning theory suggests that aggression is a learntbehaviour, and therefore that coaches who encourage players to be
aggressive and reward it are increasing the likelihood of aggression.
This theory also suggests that when an athlete plays aggressively andperceives that such a style leads to a successful outcome (rather thanfrustration) then they are more likely to continue to play aggressively.The same three theories apply to spectators as well as players, andvarious forms of typical spectator aggression have been identiﬁed,AGGRESSION
9