America from the 1880s under the guidance of Hartvig Nissen and
Nils Posse.
Further reading : Trangbaek (2000)
SYLLABUSES OF PHYSICAL TRAINING
These deﬁned the exercises and procedures demanded of state
schools by the Board of Education. Following the review of the
model course of 1902 , a revised syllabus, written largely by Colo-
nel G. M. Fox, who had been seconded from the War Ofﬁce for the
task, was issued in 1904. This embraced the Ling system of Swedish
gymnastics . Although the 1909 syllabus still had the tradition of
drill, it did introduce dance and games such as leap-frog, which can
be regarded as a further move away from militarism . This syllabus
also approved of the appointment of advisors for physical education
and encouraged the provision of training for teachers to deliver thesyllabus. The syllabus of 1919 was called one of physical training ,
not merely one of physical exercises. It developed aspects of physical
education not included in the syllabus of the previous decade.
Individual interpretation and decision-making in movements were
encouraged, as was the use of music and games. The 1933 syllabus
gave games a more prominent role, and emphasised outdoor educa-tion, attaining good posture, and the place of rhythm and move-ment. Most signiﬁcantly, it stated that physical education was anintegral part of overall education. Daily physical education was calledfor, suitable clothing was discussed, and there was a postponement of
certain exercises until children’s physiques were more developed.
See also :gymnastics, physical education
Further reading : Bailey and Vamplew (1999)
SYMBOLIC INTERACTIONISM
The roots of symbolic interactionism lie with the studies of self pioneered
by George H. Mead. Mead argued that all individuals in society willimagine themselves in the roles of those with whom they interact.Symbolic interactionism can therefore be understood as the study ofthe relationship between self and society as a process of the symbolicSYMBOLIC INTERACTIONISM
219