over injury and illness prevention has fostered developments in pro-
tective equipment , such as the wearing of helmets in cricket, but
has also led to discussions about brain damage from heading a foot-
ball, and more signiﬁcantly to concern about brain damage in boxing,
all of which has helped fuel the current boxing debate . As part of
the concern for an athlete’s well-being, sports nutrition has also
become an important area of sports medicine: Issues of what to eatand drink, and when, in order to optimise performance and mini-mise risk of illness and injury, are the concern of these experts.
The diagnosis and treatment of injuries is typically conducted by
teams of medical personnel including physicians, athletic trainers andsports physiotherapists. While common injuries include sprains and
pulls, cuts and bruises, fractures and dislocations, it is in the areas of
soft tissue injuries, and torn or pulled tendons and ligaments, parti-cularly in the knee and shoulder, that sports medicine has made thegreatest advances. The development of increasingly sophisticatedtechnology, such as computerised tomography (CT) scans, magneticresonance imagery (MRI) and arthroscopic surgery, has enabledphysicians to diagnose and treat such injuries far more effectively thanin the past. In dealing with soft tissue injuries, a variety of therapeutic
modalities are now used, including heat and ice, electrical stimulation
and various anti-inﬂammatory drugs, steroids or enzymes. The use ofdrugs has also become part of the preparation of athletes. Substances
such as anabolic steroids and amphetamines have led to a variety of
controversies about drug testing and drug abuse. And as athletes
have sought ways of enhancing their performance, the pharmacolo-gical aspects of performance enhancement have presented increasingproblems for both athletes and sports medicine experts alike.
See also :drugs, health
Further reading : Berryman (1995), Berryman and Park (1992), Grayson
(1999b), Hackney and Wallace (1999), Harries (1996), Narvani et al. (2006),
Strauss (1984), Waddington (2000)
SPREAD BETTING
A form of gambling that has caught on in the past decade, spread
betting differs from conventional betting in that winnings are notcalculated in ﬁxed odds, and losses can be many times the stakeplaced. A spread betting ﬁrm will create an index for a sportingSPREAD BETTING
212