TOPOPHILIA
Many followers of sport are as enthusiastic about the stadium that
their team plays in as they are about the sport which they have
chosen to watch. This enthusiasm, romantic attachment to, or love
of, a sporting venue can be understood by the term ‘topophilia’,which is, as Bale has deﬁned it, literally ‘a love of place’ (Bale 1992:120). The concept was developed by Tuan, who argued that topo-philia applied to any intense feeling of sense of place which engen-dered a love and affection between people and a place or setting. Itseems clear that home grounds for football supporters engender suchstrong feelings, but so it would seem do other sporting venues. The
Grand National is inseparable from a love of Aintree, the All England
T ennis Championships from feelings for Wimbledon, or the All
Ireland hurling and football ﬁnals from sentimental views of CrokePark.
Further reading : Bale (1992), Tuan (1974)
TRADITIONAL SPORTS
Sports and games that are classiﬁed as ‘folk’ or ‘traditional’, are those
which have a long-standing history, and are most usually associatedwith a period of popular recreation that preceded the birth ofmodern organised sport. Historians have shown that a wide range ofdifferent physical activities existed across Europe in the medieval andearly modern period, and such activities were also a common feature
of life on the other continents. Many of these games and recreations
came under attack during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, asthey were seen as a threat to public order. T oo often traditional gameswere violent, and served as conduits for gambling and other illegalpractices. In particular it was the folk ball games that disappeared inthe years of codiﬁcation and during the advent of modern sport. Theorganised games of football, rugby and other regional varieties such asAmerican or Gaelic football, were too powerful and popular for the
folk games to resist.
Despite the advent of modern sport, many folk games and pastimes
still exist. The continued practice of folk games in certain regions can
be understood as a resistance to the overpowering nature of modernsport, and a promotion of regional and national identity. T oday manyfolk games are actively encouraged as a means of promoting a localityTOPOPHILIA
226