See also :engineering
Further reading : Anderson (2000b), Dyreson (1996)
TELEVISION
Without television, it is doubtful that sport would have the global
importance that it does. It is also unlikely that sport, especially keytelevision games such as American football, football, tennis or golf,would be as awash with money. Sport, with its skill, movement, dramaand tension is the perfect partner for television. Coverage of sporting
events is, by comparison with costume drama or documentary, rela-
tively cheap, and possesses a ready-made audience of fans andenthusiasts. In the contemporary world, the relationship betweensport and television appears to be vital to the future health of both.
The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) launched the ﬁrst
public broadcast television service in 1936. In the years before theSecond World War the BBC offered its limited number of viewerscoverage of Wimbledon, the Derby and the FA Cup ﬁnal. In 1948
the London Olympics became the ﬁrst ever games to be televised.
Until the opening of the Independent T elevision Association’s ITVnetwork in 1955, the BBC refused to pay any sporting club ororganisation money for the rights to screen events, and only paid forany facilities that they used within a sporting venue. The arrival ofITV meant that the BBC, like all television companies in the future,would have to pay for the right to cover sporting events. Such com-petition, especially heated in the United States, would bring a huge
amount of money into sport.
The attractiveness of sport for television companies, and its popu-
larity amongst the viewing public, brought about dedicated sports
programmes. In Britain the BBC began broadcasting ‘Grandstand’ in1958 and ‘Match of the Day’ in 1964. ITV countered with ‘World ofSport’ from 1964 and ‘The Big Match’ in 1968. In the United Statesthe 1960s witnessed the launch of the ABC’s ‘Wide World of Sport’and ‘Monday Night Football’. In an attempt to wrest control of
American football coverage from ABC, NBC and CBS entered bid-
ding wars that saw the costs of television rights rise dramatically. InBritain, the creation of listed events was an attempt to avoid
expensive struggles over the right to broadcast major events.
A key impetus for the growth of televised sport and its importance
within the schedules has been technology. Not only has the actualTELEVISION
223