sports sociology that have dominated, along with the reproduction
thesis andresistance thesis , research work in recent decades. The
reﬂection thesis is centred on the idea that sport mirrors, or acts as a
microcosm of society. As a result, sport reﬂects all that is good and
bad in human life. The reﬂection thesis was especially important in
the early years of sports sociology, and dominated the period of thelate 1960s and early 1970s. As it was based on empirical anddescriptive research, the work that emerged from the reﬂection thesis,although invaluable, was often basic, and relied on an examination ofthe big themes of the economics and politics of sport.
See also :sociology, reproduction thesis, resistance thesis
Further reading : Coakley (1987), Kenyon and Loy (1965), Loy and Kenyon
(1969), Loy et al. (1978), McPherson (1975)
REGIONALISM
Regions can be deﬁned by geography, politics and economics.Although British sport at the elite level has focused on inter-townand inter-urban competition, regionalism has played a role via countychampionships in such sports as rugby union and cricket, and occa-
sional representative ﬁxtures between teams from the North, South,
or Midlands. T o some extent the North/South divide in British sportis an emotional one in which those inside their usually self-deﬁnedregion oppose any outside teams.
REGULATION
The debate in Britain over sports regulation has centred on self-reg-ulation on a voluntary basis by the sports authorities versus legallyenforceable legislation. Most clubs and associations do not give avoice to the fan, consumer, or even the player, and this may stimulateintervention by the government.
More international an issue is that the economic analysis of team
sports raises a number of public policy concerns. A key one is whe-
ther government should treat the sports industry as just another
industry. In many countries open collusion between the producers in
an industry is forbidden, but, in team sports, the authorities oftenallow anti-competitive practices; in US baseball, for example, theREGIONALISM
184