Institute of Sports Sponsorship estimates the sponsorship sums
involved in all British sport at the end of the twentieth century asover £300 million, a signiﬁcant rise from £2.2 million in 1971.Obviously sports equipment and apparel manufacturers use sports
sponsorship as a means of bringing their products to the attention of
potential consumers in the sports marketplace, but many other non-sport companies also have become involved in sports sponsorship.Although examples can be found from most industries, two majorbusiness groups have participated, the ﬁnancial sector and the tobaccoand drinks trade. Sponsorship of a team, and particularly an event,can be beneﬁcial when television is involved. Indeed, the accelerationof sponsorship deals paralleled the growth of commercial television
and of advertising generally from the 1950s. In return for the
money, the host sport or club will be expected to advertise the pro-
duct or service of the sponsors on their kit or around the ground,perhaps utilise their name in the title of the competition, team orstadium, and players might be expected to attend corporate functions.Sponsorship, however, occurs at more than the elite level of sport,and many local teams obtain sponsorship from local shops or trades-man. Sport is the chosen vehicle for sponsorship because of the
numbers of adherents it has, but also because many sports are asso-
ciated with a positive, healthy image. Y et there is a suspicion thatsometimes sponsorship occurs because a businessman wants to be a‘super fan’; then it becomes more an expensive executive toy thaneffective advertising. Sport has embraced sponsorship because it canhelp pay for enhanced facilities, better players and improved teams, allof which can bring success. The major criticisms of the enhancedrole of sponsorship in funding British sport are that it has led to
changes in rules, style of play and playing costumes at the behest of
the sponsor and that, via television, it caters for an audience deemedincapable of grasping the ﬁner points of the game. Then there is theissue of whether alcohol and tobacco companies should be involvedin sport, given the health hazards of their products. At the elite level,sports sponsorship has become a sophisticated marketing exerciseinvolving both the commercial sponsor and the television broad-caster. The sports association gains an additional source of ﬁnance, and
the sponsors hope to gain a return for their spending via the exposure
of their name and product through the print and electronic media.
See also :advertising
Further reading : Polley (1998)SPONSORSHIP
204