of heroes. Appearances on chat shows, in ﬁlms, at fashion shoots and
society parties have become the norm for many contemporarysporting heroes. The ever increasing salaries paid to top sports per-formers serve to blur the line between hero and celebrity. The
demands of fame, and the pressures of expectation that are placed on
any new or aspiring hero have produced sad tales of personal excessand outlandish behaviour. George Best, Paul Gascoigne and EricCantona are all examples of heroes who have, in one way or another,lashed out against the expectations put upon them to conform to theideals of the sporting hero. Time will tell whether any of the currentcrop of sporting heroes, be they David Beckham or Steve Redgrave,are still referred to that way in years to come, but any such judge-
ment will have to take into account a range of issues about their lives,
beyond their athletic performance.
See also :collective memory, media
Further reading : Duncanson and Collies (1992), Holt et al. (1996), Hunting-
ton-Whiteley (1998)
SPORT SCIENCE
By studying responses to exercise and sport, we learn about thenormal function of the tissues and organs whose very functioningallows exercise to be performed. The genetic endowment of eliteathletes is a major factor in their success, and they represent one endof the continuum of human performance capability. With thispopulation, sport science becomes a study in the possibilities of
human performance, because nowhere else do we subject the humanbody to such levels of intensive exercise and training on such a reg-ular basis. The information gleaned from such study can be used in anumber of ways. We can use such information to identify potentialsporting talent, as has been done in Eastern Europe, Australia andelsewhere. We can also use such information for medical purposes,since we know that lack of physical activity is a major risk factor formany of the diseases that affect people in much of the world. An
understanding of the body’s response to exercise is therefore vital
both physiologically and psychologically.
Further reading : Elliott (1998), Rogozkin and Maughan (1996)SPORT SCIENCE
210