engaged in activity set by the teacher at an appropriate level of difﬁ-
culty. Early studies conducted in the 1980s using this measure showedthat students in physical education classes were not spending a greatdeal of time (about one third of class time) engaged in appropriate
practice of physical skills. While more recent research has shown that
practice time is one important factor in predicting learning outcomesin physical education, ALT -PE researchers have also discovered thatother factors such as the quality of practice are also important inpromoting the learning of physical skills.
See also :World Wide Web
Further reading : Rink (2002)
AMATEURISM
Amateurism is a British invention, its growth being largely reﬂectiveof a lengthy process of appropriation and gentriﬁcation of sport fromthe late eighteenth century onwards. It began as an ideal and ended as
an ideology. In its strictest sense – amateur as ‘lover’ or absolute
enthusiast – it represented the peak of intention rather than themanner of performance. The ideal became consolidated in the gen-tlemanly activities of public schoolboys in the ﬁrst half of the nine-teenth century, so that, as Wigglesworth (1996: 85) notes, ‘by 1868Trollope could suggest that playing billiards was an amusement of agentleman but to play billiards eminently well is the life’s work of aman who in learning to do so can hardly have continued to be a
gentleman ‘‘in the best sense’’’.
It was in trying to further the distinction between the sporting
gentleman ‘in the best sense’ – the sense of the amateur as the ideal,
and the sportsman concerned with performance – the professionalplayer of the game, that other distinguishing features of being a pro-fessional emerged. These included: ﬁnancial reward, occupation andsocial class. And it was in attaching social class characteristics andovertones to the concept of the amateur, and fostering a simple
binary of amateur and professional to match the upper and lower
class, gentleman and non-gentleman, respectable and not-respectabledesignations, that provided the basis for these terms as important‘social markers’. The terms amateur and professional also becameinstruments of social control, epithets of support and disdain, andmeasures of social standing and moral worth.AMATEURISM
12