SPORT
A deﬁnition of sport as a structured, goal-oriented, competitive,
contest-based, ludic, physical activity embraces most activities gen-
erally recognised as sports. It is located on the continuum between
play and work. Most sports are played in a limited, deﬁned spacedesigned speciﬁcally for that activity, and take place within a pre-scribed timeframe. Many of them are governed by bodies that set therules , goals, and the criteria by which success and failure can be
judged. Sporting competition is of three forms: ‘direct’, in whichopponents confront each other; ‘parallel’, in which opponents taketurns or compete in separate areas; and ‘attainment’, where the target
is a standard which has to be achieved. Unlike in play, where there is
little regard for victory, sport places substantial emphasis on winning.
‘Contest-based’ infers a demonstration of superiority via relativespeed, endurance, strength, accuracy or coordination. Although the
physical is an essential part of sport, strategy is also commonlyinvolved, but in varying degrees, outcomes can be inﬂuenced bychance. Those playing sport can receive intrinsic andextrinsic
rewards; the more the rewards are extrinsic, the more sport becomes
work in the sense of being instrumental rather than consumption. An
interesting view of sport is to regard it as about achieving certain endsoften using ineffective means, for in all sports artiﬁcial difﬁculties areintroduced to allow the participants to test their skills and abilities to
overcome them. Thus football has an offside rule, without which the
objective of scoring goals would be more easily attained, and golflimits the number and type of club that can be used to propel a ballthat is restricted in size and composition.
SPORT EDUCATION
T eachers involved in sport education attempt to use sport positivelyto present children with challenging and enjoyable sporting experi-ences. Sometimes it is associated with games played under modiﬁedrules in which skills and ethical behaviour is encouraged ahead of
competitive performance. This model of physical education design
was popularised in the United States and Australia and more recentlyhas increased in prominence in the United Kingdom. Although somephysical educationalists see it as a potential threat with a concern thatthe competition inherent in most sport might come to dominate,proponents of sport education want to ensure that the overridingSPORT EDUCATION
205