engagement (mutual support, co-operation, trust and institutional
effectiveness) outweigh the negative ones including sectarianism,sexism and class discrimination.
Further reading : Field (2003), Hughson et al. (2005)
SOCIOLOGY
Sociology is a discipline of the social sciences, and can be bestunderstood as the study of society or social membership. The foun-dations of sociology lie with Karl Marx, E ´mile Durkheim and Max
Weber, who all raised fundamental questions about the nature ofsociety, questions that remain at the heart of the subject. Sociology
took off as a subject for university study in the post-war years, and
was transformed into a series of sub-disciplines such as the sociologyof medicine, the sociology of the family, the sociology of gender, andthe sociology of sport. As a result of the wide range of approaches
and topics, no deﬁnition of the concept is ever satisfactory. Sociologyhas been an important intellectual force, and has contributed much to
our understanding of society. In both its empirical and theoretical
forms, the subject has raised questions about the nature of individualresponsibility, has contributed to work in other related ﬁelds such ashistory, philosophy and economics, and has often been central indeﬁning the nature of post-industrial society.
Sports sociology emerged as a discrete sub-discipline in the 1960s,
and aimed to understand the role of sport in social and cultural lifethrough the application of sociological methodology. It was driven by
a recognition that ‘sport and physical education are social practices
and that they are culturally and historically relative’ (Coakley andDunning 2000: xxi). Sports sociology has been dominated, thoughnot entirely, by studies of organised and competitive sports that areboth rational and institutionalised. Sports sociology has sought tounderstand two main areas of activity: the historical and the con-temporary. The former has focused on the sociological origins andfunctions of sport, while the latter has examined, amongst others,
pressing topics such as power structures, subcultures, violence and
race.
The academic and institutional development of sports sociology
took place predominantly in the United States, but has since spreadacross the world. The subject now has three major journals: Interna-
tional Review for the Sociology of Sport ,Journal of Sport and Social Issues ,SOCIOLOGY
200