largely developed as sports in California, where the landscape and the
climate afforded opportunities for such activities and where the surﬁngculture of the 1960s was transformed with the development of tech-nology of a different sort to produce a broad array of on-land activities.
BMX dirt biking, which got its start on the trails and ﬁre roads of
Mount Tamalpais, involves racing, jumping over and off dirt moundsand riding on vertical ramps. Competitors are judged for difﬁculty,style and amplitude. In-line skaters compete in three types of eventsover three different courses. The vertical event uses a horseshoe-shaped half-pike ramp in which skaters perform jumps, twists, turns,spins and ﬂips, earning points for the quality and style of their per-formance. On the ‘street’ course, performers have to manoeuvre down
obstacles such as stairs, along railings, up and down ramps and over
walls, again earning points for style and difﬁculty of stunts. The down-hill course uses streets or roads, as do street and skate-luge competitions.
While the World Wide Web has enabled extreme sports enthu-
siasts to communicate more readily and thus develop a base of supportfor their activities, it has been the inﬂuence of the media through thedevelopment of the X-Games and Gravity Games, alongside theexploitation of these emergent sports and their appropriation by cor-
porations such as McDonalds and Disney, which have changed these
‘outlaw’ activities into increasingly mainstream sports. As Pope andRinehart note, enthusiasts in search of a unique recreational experiencepioneered most of these sports. They developed local contests andchampionships as a means of testing their skills against others. It wasonly in the late 1980s that such activities began to attract media attention,and with this came sponsorship and career possibilities. The inclusion ofsnowboarding in the 1996 Winter Olympics typiﬁed the incorporation
of extreme sports into the mainstream. Thus activities that began as
recreational outlets for some of society’s ‘outsiders’ have increasinglybecome formalised, institutionalised sports with their own corporatesponsors, national and international competitions, records and heroes,and as such part of mainstream sport in many Western nations.
Further reading : Allen (1993), Bane (1996), Donnelly (2006) Karinch (2000),
McMillen (1998), Pope and Rinehart (2001), Wheaton (2004)
ADVERTISING
Advertising is the publicising of goods with the aim of increasingsales. It is the most visible sign of sport’s commercialisation, withADVERTISING
5