recognisable to the players of Hambledon in the eighteenth century,
much has changed because of the application of technology. Thenineteenth century brought the lawnmower, heavy roller, and drai-nage devices to keep the pitch in good playing order. This has been
followed by batting helmets as protective equipment, hollow-backed
bats to provide more powerful striking of the ball, and third umpiresusing video replays to assist their judgement. Similarly, boxing underlights with gloves, and night race meetings on all-weather tracks, haveboth beneﬁted from technology whilst maintaining their essentialfeatures. Nevertheless, new sports have emerged as a result of tech-nological development; one of the more recent has been windsurﬁng,now an Olympic event. Other sports have emerged through techno-
logical development outside the sporting arena. Perhaps the most
important historically has been the variety of motor sports initiallysparked off by the invention of the internal combustion engine.
T echnological developments in sport can be classiﬁed as having
assisted participants, spectators and ofﬁcials. Players have improvedtheir performances by using better equipment, such as the disk wheelin cycling, ﬁbre carbon in darts and vaulting poles, and streamlinedrunning gear and swimming costumes. Such technological break-
throughs are not conﬁned to the turn of the millennium. In golf
the replacement of the feather ball by the gutta-percha in the mid-nineteenth century, and it in turn by the rubber-cored ball in theearly twentieth century, revolutionised the game. Sportspersons cannow test their ﬁtness and skill levels under laboratory conditions withspecially designed equipment. Safety, too, has improved: FormulaOne drivers and pit crews now have ﬁre-resistant suits, and hard hatshave saved the lives of jockeys and cricketers.
Spectators attending the game have gained from improved stadium
architecture with better rooﬁng to combat the worst of the weather,the use of lights to enable night-time sport to be watched, and betterdesign to allow unobstructed viewing. Those at home have beneﬁtedfrom developments in newspaper, radio and television technology.Clearly, in many instances, thanks to miniature cameras, split screensand instant slow-motion replays, they now have better than the bestseats in the house.
Sports ofﬁcials have found their tasks eased by the coming of the
photo-ﬁnish camera, electronic measuring devices, and pharmaceu-tical advances in drug testing. This latter point serves to emphasisethat not all technological developments can be viewed positively.Drugs, blood doping, and potentially gene modiﬁcation, are alsotechnological advances.TECHNOLOGY
222