STRUCTURALISM
Experts in a variety of ﬁelds of study have taken a structuralist
approach in their work, although it has most often been favoured by
those working in the ﬁeld of literary criticism. Structuralism has its
origins in the work of Ferdinand de Saussure, and his Course inGeneral Linguistics, ﬁrst published in 1916. The essence of thetheory is that all language can be understood and analysed as astructural system of relationships. In this approach, meaning emergesfrom the relationship of the structural system of language, notfrom the deﬁnitions of the words themselves. Structuralism is there-fore an attempt, driven by the ideas of objective science, to place all
linguistic and social relations within an objective setting. The
approach has been challenged by the post-structuralists, who have
argued against the strict methodological framework imposed bystructuralism.
See also :post-modernism, sociology
Further reading : Attridge et al. (1987), Clarke (1981)
SUBSIDISATION
Most commonly, subsidisation infers grants from government orquasi-government bodies to ﬁnance activities that are considered to
be of value to the community, but which without the subsidy either
could not be afforded or would operate on a lesser scale. In the
nineteenth century, riﬂe clubs received government funding as they
were regarded as useful training institutions for national defence.T oday subsidies are made for purposes of national prestige (via pay-ments to enable elite athletes to prepare for international competi-tions) and social well-being (through part-funding of club premises).Nevertheless until recently both central and local government sub-sidisation of sport in Britain has lagged behind that of most otherEuropean countries, although, since the mid-1990s, the National
Lottery has been used indirectly by the government as a means of
subsidising sporting activities without resort to taxation.
Within clubs or associations, cross-subsidisation occurs when the
proﬁts from one activity are used to underwrite ﬁnancial shortfallselsewhere in the organisation. Many football clubs use their mer-
chandising income to pay playing staff whose wages could not beSTRUCTURALISM
216