achieved. Hence it encompasses such things as the education of coa-
ches, ofﬁcials, and administrators with respect to expected standardsof conduct within a sport; codes of conduct themselves; the promo-tion of respect, trust and honesty; rewards for appropriate behaviour;
knowledge of both the written and unwritten rules; and the use of
high performance athletes as role models.
See also :fair play, sporting deviance
Further reading : Vamplew and Dimeo (2004)
SPORTING DEVIANCE
In many respects sporting deviance is the antithesis to fair play or
sporting conduct as it encompasses such activities as abuse of
opponents, ofﬁcials and equipment, verbal and physical intimidation,the taking of performance-enhancing drugs, gamesmanship, racialabuse and sexual disparagement, and disregard for the ethics of aparticular sport. It can also cover spectator disorder and the inap-
propriate coaching of children and young people, However, it can be
broadened to include behaviour of sportspersons outside their sport-ing life such as sexual misconduct, the use of recreational drugs, andalcohol-fuelled aggression and violence.
Further reading : Blackshaw and Crabbe (2004), Vamplew and Dimeo (2004)
SPORTING HEROES
For many people one of the great attractions of sport is that it createsheroes. Skilful performances, daring shots, being the successfulunderdog or battling through against injury, have, amongst a range ofother factors, all served to create heroes. The media have played an
instrumental role in the creation of heroes. From the ﬁrst reports ofsport within the pages of newspapers, through radio and television ,
the media has been at the forefront of the creation of sporting heroesand villains. Not only did sporting heroes add an extra dimension tothe report of a match or event, the focus on someone who was ido-lised undoubtedly added to circulation, listening or viewing ﬁgures.
The ﬁrst sporting heroes emerged in eighteenth-century Britain.
Men such as Sam Chifney, the jockey, or Jack Broughton, theSPORTING DEVIANCE
208