example might be the taking of a penalty kick in soccer. And (2) as
an indicator of the quality of performance such as that of a playerwho rarely ‘misses’ a penalty kick. We credit such an effectivepenalty-taker with having a great deal of skill.
The signiﬁcant elements of (1) are that a skill has a purpose, that it
is performed voluntarily and is not just a reﬂex action, and that itrequires part or whole body movement to be accomplished. Becauseit requires movement it is termed a motor skill. The signiﬁcant ele-ments of (2) are that quality of performance (skill) is usually demon-strated by productivity (how often the penalty-taker scores) and/orconsistency in a variety of contexts. Thus skill is ‘an ability to bringabout some end result with maximum certainty and minimum
amount of energy’ (Guthrie 1952: 136). The term ‘skill’ is differ-
entiated from the concept of ability, in that ability is a general capa-city for skilful behaviour in contrast to the greater speciﬁcity of ‘skill’.
There have been a number of efforts at classifying motor skills into
broader, more general categories, in order to facilitate the applicationof principles of teaching and learning to skill development in sportand physical activity. These classiﬁcation systems each employ theconcept of a continuum and evaluating skills in terms of that con-
tinuum. Thus one classiﬁcation system uses a gross-ﬁne continuum,
where the placement of skills along the continuum is dependent onthe precision of the movement and the type of musculature involved.Thus writing would be considered a relatively ‘ﬁne’ motor skill,whereas throwing the discus would be closer to the ‘gross’ end of thecontinuum, because although precision is important in both move-ments, it is a more important component in writing.
A second classiﬁcation system uses a discrete-continuous con-
tinuum, in which the nature of the beginning and end points of theskill is the salient feature of classiﬁcation. Thus throwing a ball, whichas a skill has a distinct beginning and end, is a discrete skill, whereasrunning is a continuous task because the beginning and end is notspeciﬁed by the task but rather is determined by the performer. Athird classiﬁcation system is the open-closed continuum, where thestability of the environment in which the skill is performed is thedetermining factor. If the environment in which the skill is per-
formed is stable or predictable such as in playing darts, or in shooting
basketball free throws, then the skill is considered a ‘closed’ skill. Ifthe environment is changing, such as in hitting ground strokes intennis, then the skill is considered a more ‘open’ skill.
See also :skill acquisitionSKILL
197