ANABOLIC STEROIDS
Anabolic, or tissue-building, steroids are synthetic forms of the male
sex hormone, testosterone, and are one form of steroids. They were
ﬁrst developed in the 1930s for medicinal purposes such as building
body weight for the malnourished, treating gastrointestinal disorders,anaemia, and even osteoporosis. Anabolic steroids work by accelerat-ing the natural cellular processes that build and replenish muscle. It isfor this reason that athletes have been attracted to them in theirsearch for improved performance, particularly in activities requiringboth strength and speed.
While it is clear that athletes have been using anabolic steroids
since the 1960s, and their use was banned by amateur athletic asso-ciations and the International Olympic Committee in the 1970s, it
was not until the 1988 Olympic Games in Seoul, Korea, that the
issue of drugs anddrug testing , and more particularly the wide-
spread use of steroids, became widely discussed. It was in the blue
ribbon speed event, the 100 metres, at the 1988 Seoul Olympics thatCanadian sprinter Ben Johnson achieved a world record time of 9.79seconds and the title of fastest man on earth, only to be stripped of
his gold medal after testing positive for drugs. Concern over the
issues surrounding the use of anabolic steroids have continued eversince.
Among the reasons for widespread concern beyond the issue of
cheating have been the purported health problems and severe sideeffects which use of these substances can entail. In addition to theirbeing addictive, the use of anabolic steroids has been associated withsterility, increased aggressiveness, heart disease, and kidney and liver
dysfunction in males. In females such use has been associated with
increased facial and body hair, a deepening of the voice and disrup-tion of the menstrual cycle.
See also :drugs
Further reading : Williams (1998), Y esalis (2000)
ANAEROBIC EXERCISE
Anaerobic exercise refers to the initial phase of physical activity, orshort burst of effort, where energy is generated without the use ofoxygen. Such exercise employs muscles at high intensity and a highANABOLIC STEROIDS
14