ANTHROPOLOGY
Anthropologists study the interaction of human culture, biology and
environment; and while they are concerned with the study of the
individual human, they are also concerned with broader comparative
analyses of these elements, both across time and across different cul-tures. In studying human biology and human culture, anthropologistshave developed two major sub-areas of focus: cultural anthropologyand physical anthropology.
Cultural anthropologists have demonstrated that play, sport and
physical activity are universal features of cultures past and present and
yet, in their individual forms, these activities represent opportunities
for assessing a particular culture and provide a way of assessing that
culture’s qualities and social problems. Early anthropologists of sport,
such as T ylor and Culin, looked at the sports and games of non-Western tribal and pre-literate peoples. From these initial efforts,
anthropologists have developed sophisticated studies of sport from across-cultural perspective. They have described and deﬁned sport andphysical activity in a range of cultures, analysing its language andsymbols in an attempt to illustrate the depth, complexity and mean-
ing of sport and physical activity in human society. TAASP (The
Association for the Anthropological Study of Play), founded in 1974,signalled the growing interest in this area of study.
Blanchard has noted a number of major theoretical concerns that
guide anthropologists studying sport and physical activity. Theseinclude the following:
/C15Sport is an integral part of culture and, as an institution, comple-
ments other aspects of culture. Thus to watch a game of cricket in
the West Indies provides insight into the broader culture of thoseislands.
/C15The importance of the play aspect of sport in studying sport andphysical activity.
/C15The fact that continuity and change in sport are both reﬂective of and
yet factors in continuity and change in a culture. Thus while cricketcontinues to provide a sense of sporting and cultural continuity,
the introduction of American football to the UK suggests change.
Anthropologists can help provide solutions to social problems such as
violence because of the unique insights that they bring to suchbehaviour. The issue of soccer hooliganism has provided them with arich area of study.ANTHROPOLOGY
19