importance of sports history has increased, since the 1970s, so more
sports clubs, associations and organisations have preserved materialrelating to various aspects of their operations. Unfortunately, as withmuseums , very few sporting archives can afford the luxury of pur-
pose-built facilities or the employment costs of a professional archivistor librarian. There is, however, a wealth of material available both inprivate and public collections throughout the world. Much archivalmaterial is held by sporting clubs, but increasingly national reposi-tories and libraries have begun to collect sports-related material.Many international sporting bodies, such as FIFA and the IOC, havearchives dedicated to collecting all material relating to their activities.
AROUSAL
In the sport psychology literature, arousal has been deﬁned in a
variety of ways but is generally thought of as a physiological state of
readiness to perform. As such, arousal is viewed as neither positivenor negative and as having both beneﬁcial and detrimental effects onan athlete’s performance. For humans, physiological arousal is a
homeostatic process in that each individual has an optimal level of
arousal. Arousal should not be confused with stress, which is anindividual’s response to an environmental demand. The fact that stresscan, and often does, induce physiological arousal does not mean thatthe terms are interchangeable. And while some types and levels of stress can produce positive outcomes, they can also induce arousal inassociation with the negative form of stress we term anxiety.
Interest in the relationship between arousal and athletic perfor-
mance has led to two major theories: drive theory and the inverted-U theory. Drive theorists posit that there is a positive linear rela-tionship between arousal and performance. The higher the level ofarousal, the higher the level of performance. Inverted-U theoristsstate that athletic performance will be facilitated by moderate levels ofarousal. An athlete’s performance will be less than optimal if they areeither under-aroused (or ‘not up for it’) or over-aroused (‘over thetop’). Additionally, such theorists have also noted that different
activities require different levels of arousal. Thus, for a biathlete to be
successful, they need to be able to alter their levels of arousal whenskiing and when shooting for optimal performance. Recent researchhas focused on the anxiety/performance relationship and on anindividual’s subjective understanding and interpretation of anxietybecause it seems that successful athletes tend to view their anxiety as aAROUSAL
21