public entertainment. The animals were bred and trained especially
for this combat. Throwing objects at cocks where a tethered bird wasstoned to death also provided cheap entertainment in an era whereconcerns over animal welfare were minimal. Ratting too was a pop-
ular urban sport, in which a dog was timed in the killing of a number
of the vermin in an enclosed pit. Now such activities are minor,clandestine affairs rather than the popular, public sports that theyonce were. Hunting, shooting and ﬁshing were more associated withparticipation than with betting or watching, although sometimesinvolvement was restricted by social position. Coursing is one of theoldest of animal sports and involves competition between a pair ofhunting dogs, usually greyhounds, in pursuit of live prey, usually a
hare but sometimes a rabbit. Generally this sport has given way to
groups of dogs chasing a mechanical hare around a track, thoughthe Waterloo Cup, established in the 1820s, is still competed for withlive quarry. Other sports involving animals performing includepigeon racing, horse racing, and other equestrian activities such aspolo, show-jumping, and three-day eventing – which is still referredto in many parts of Europe as ‘militaire’ as it evolved from cavalryexercises in which horses had to prove their obedience, boldness and
ﬁtness.
Generally it is accepted that humans have become more civilised in
their treatment of animals, though this has necessitated the interven-
tion of the law to ban bull baiting in 1800 and cockﬁghting andother cruel animal sports in 1835. The use of RSPCA inspectors hasaided the modern enforcement of this legislation, but certainlycockﬁghts are still held surreptitiously in some areas. Hunting gen-erally escaped legislation because of its friends in high places, but also
because a case could be made for its importance in the rural econ-
omy. In recent years the debate over the alleged cruelty of hunting inits several forms has resurfaced, and Parliament has now outlawedmost of its varieties. Live pigeon shooting, a sport in the 1904Olympics, has given way to the clay variety.
As in most British leisure activities there is class differentiation. It
occurs in the distinction between owning greyhounds or thor-
oughbred racehorses; in practising coarse angling or ﬂy ﬁshing; and in
shooting grouse rather than rabbits.
See also :animal rights
Further reading : Collins et al. (2005), Franklin (1999), Kean (1998), Scherer
(1995), Thomas (1983), Vamplew (2005b)ANIMAL SPORTS
18