The muscular system
Muscles enable such movement to take place through their contrac-
tions since they are attached to bones by tendons. The control of
such movement requires the development of motor skills in whichthe nervous system provides the necessary control of muscle activity.Unlike striated muscle which facilitates human movement, the twoother forms of muscle found in the human body, smooth muscle andheart muscle, are not under conscious control.
The nervous system
The nervous system, which includes the brain, the spinal cord and
the nerves, controls the body’s activities. While the lower part of thebrain controls autonomous functions such as breathing and heart rate,the higher part of the brain directs voluntary muscular activities andperforms the important integrating and processing functions requiredfor skilled movement. The brain receives and sends information to
the nerves via the spinal cord, processing such information in order
to provide appropriate and integrated movement that we associatewith displays of sporting skills and excellence when conducted at thehighest levels. The control of movement or motor control is animportant area of sport science research.
The circulatory and respiratory systems
These provide the body with the nourishment and oxygen necessary tofunction and grow The circulatory system includes the heart, bloodvessels and blood. The respiratory system includes the trachea, lungsand alveoli. The constant delivery of oxygen is necessary to sustain life.The respiratory system functions to bring oxygen into the blood for useat the tissues, as well as being responsible for the disposal of carbondioxide. Regular exercise produces important changes in the circula-
tory system. Thus exercise undertaken to enhance endurance serves
to increase blood ﬂow to the working muscles, thereby providing themuscle cells with increased fuel and oxygen. Endurance training alsoincreases the number of red blood cells and the volume of blood, bothof which also enhance the capacity of the working muscles to perform.
See also :biomechanics
Further reading : Mottola (1992), Peronnet and Gardiner (1992), Wells and
Luttgens (1976)ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
16