means of helping rather than hindering their performance. They like
the ‘big occasion’ and seem to be able to rise to the challenge whichan anxiety-inducing situation, such as an Olympic ﬁnal, can provide.
See also :aggression, psychology
Further reading : Landers and Boutcher (1986), Wann (1997), Y erkes and
Dodson (1908)
ASSESSMENT
Assessment is a means of quantifying ability, performance or progressin practical and/or theoretical areas of the subject. It can be on-going, which measures progress (formative assessment), or it may
represent a ﬁnal attainment (summative assessment). Some assessments
may be objective, such as a distance or a height attained in an athleticevent, and any awarded marks or grades would therefore be self-evidentto both the assessor (e.g. teacher or examiner) and the subject (e.g.the performer or student). In other cases, assessment is almost entirelysubjective (e.g. tactical ability in a game or a performance in dance),and this type of assessment must be supported by a clear and wellstructured framework of objectives or characteristics against which
performance may be interpreted and measured with some con-
sistency. In physical education, assessment occurs most commonlywithin the framework of the National Curriculum and in GCSEexaminations for students up to the age of sixteen years, and in AS,A2, GNVQ, etc. examinations for sixth-formers. Under the rules ofthe recent qualiﬁcations framework, assessment is conducted throughunit based systems of credit accumulation and transfer.
ATHLETICISM
During the nineteenth century, as sports and games grew in popu-larity in the public schools , the ideal of athleticism emerged. For
the schoolmasters who were promoting sports, their decision to haveboys playing football or doing gymnastic exercises was ideological.Sport was not played solely for its own good, but was a method of
inculcating the boys with Christian values through physical exercise.
The core value was the promotion of muscular Christianity .K e y
amongst the early proponents of athleticism was Thomas Arnold atASSESSMENT
22