work rate for a short period of time and is used as a means of
increasing muscle strength or developing speed. As such, weight-lifting, jumping and sprinting are the most common forms of anae-robic activity. The beneﬁts of anaerobic exercise include increased
caloric consumption, increased metabolism and building lean tissue
or muscle mass.
See also :aerobic exercise
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
In order to understand the workings of the human body, biologistshave focused on the body’s structure (how it is put together) and itsfunction (how it works). Anatomy is the study of the body’s structure,and ranges from the study of cells (microanatomy) to the study ofparts and systems (gross anatomy). Physiology is the study of thefunction of cells, organs and systems.
Anatomists typically divide the body into nine systems when ana-
lysing structure. These systems are: the skeleton, the muscles, the
circulatory and respiratory systems, the nervous system, the glandular
system, the digestive system, the urinary system, the reproductivesystem, and the skin. Physiologists study the functions of thesesystems and how they interact. A basic tenet of physiology is thatthe body tends to make internal adjustments so that its internalenvironment remains as stable and unchanging as possible. This isknown as homeostasis. Physiologists study the ways in which thebody achieves and maintains homeostasis. For those interested in
sport and physical activity the skeleton, muscles, and the nervous
system and the circulatory and respiratory systems are perhaps themost critical.
The skeletal system
The skeleton is a combination of bones, joints and cartilage. Its
function is to support and protect the organs of the body and the soft
tissue that surrounds them, while providing points of attachment or
insertions for the muscles that enable us to move our bodies. Some of
the body’s 206 bones also produce blood cells in the bone marrow.Joints provide various forms of movement, and cartilage serves as aprotective material between bones to cushion and facilitate thatmovement.ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
15