have attempted to make boxing safer by encouraging the use of pro-
tective equipment , limiting bouts and increasing medical surveillance.
Further reading : Jordan (1993), Rose (1988), Sugden (1996)
BOYCOTTS
With the advent of international sporting competition, such as the
Olympics , it was perhaps inevitable that politics would enter sport.
Rather than making political capital on the battleﬁeld or in diplo-
matic negotiations, it was easier for nations to score political points in
the sporting arena. As interest in sport grew from the media , and
television coverage was extended to become international, so any
political actions were instantly relayed to the whole of the world. The
act of boycott , simply refusing to attend a sporting event, is an
immensely powerful weapon. Any major sporting event bestowshonour, prestige and attention on the host nation or city. By refusingto attend the event, a nation effectively withdraws support andlegitimacy and makes the whole spectacle less impressive. A policy of
boycott was discussed by many nations in the context of the 1936
Olympic Games in Berlin, but rejected. As a result Hitler was able
to claim that he had hosted one of the greatest games to date, thatwas fully attended. Such attendance, it was argued, legitimised hisregime internationally. On the international stage, two events in thesecond half of the twentieth century provoked boycotts of internationalsporting events and ﬁxtures. The ﬁrst was the politics of the ColdWar, which led to the refusal of many Western nations to attend the
1980 Olympics in Moscow in the wake of the Soviet invasion of
Afghanistan. In response, the Soviets led a reciprocal boycott byEastern Bloc nations of the 1984 games in Los Angeles. The secondissue, that of South Africa and its policy of apartheid, caused manymore problems. The 1976 Olympics in Montreal was the victim ofboycotts, as were the Commonwealth Games of 1986, in Edin-
burgh. Whether the decision to boycott a major sporting ﬁxture orevent actually changes any government’s policy is hard to say. What is
clear is that such decisions demonstrate the importance of major
international sporting events, and their clear link with politics .
See also :government policy, politics
Further reading : Hain (1982), Ramsamy (1984)BOYCOTTS
30