by a trained and skilled tester. While body composition is based in
part on heredity, per cent body fat is related to lifestyle and can bealtered through nutrition and exercise.
b-OXIDATION
The process by which fats are broken down in the mitrochondria to
generate Acetyl-CoA.
See also :Krebs cycle
BOXING DEBATE
Boxing is a controversial sport that has always drawn criticism fromphysicians and moralists alike. The moral controversy that surroundsboxing is embedded in two differing ethical stances, the one stressingindividual autonomy, the other paternalism. Based on the harmprinciple, those arguing for individual autonomy conclude that
boxing should be allowed. Those arguing that we have a paternalist
duty to protect each other argue that boxing should be banned. Forthose who believe that boxing should be allowed, the arguments arestraightforward. Those who freely choose to box, knowing full wellthe potential injury and damage they can cause themselves and theiropponents, should be granted the autonomy to do so. Others have noright to prevent such freedom of choice, and freedom of action andactivity, among fully informed and consenting adults. Furthermore,
risk of death or brain damage is in fact less than in other high risk
sports such as hang gliding, sky diving and motorcycle racing.
For the paternalists who argue against boxing, the argument is very
different. While some paternalists would argue that they have an
obligation to prevent an individual from boxing because they arelikely to harm themselves, all paternalists would agree that boxinginvolves the intentional harming of another. Since such harms aremorally objectionable in a civilised society and we claim to be a
civilised society, then boxing should be banned. The British Medical
Association, which has long argued against boxing, can provide evi-dence to support their claim that there are serious neurological, andnon-neurological, injuries which occur as a result of boxing and thatthese injuries constitute signiﬁcant ‘costs’ to society, the boxer’sfamily, etc. In response to the intractability of this debate, both sidesBOXING DEBATE
29