ago. If we are open to different conceptions and constructions of the
body, then we have to rethink, as Coakley (1998: 11) argued, about‘sex, sex differences, sexuality, ideals of beauty, self-image, bodyimage, fashion, hygiene, health, nutrition, eating, ﬁtness, racial clas-
siﬁcation systems, disease, drugs and other things that affect our lives’.
In essence, studying the body, in the context of sport and physicalﬁtness, offers a whole new way of thinking about human beings andtheir interaction with society. Sport has encouraged us to think of thebody in a variety of different ways. Sports medicine and training havemade bodies stronger and ﬁtter, and many elite bodies are artiﬁciallytailored for their sports. Sports such as aerobics, which are essentiallyconcerned with body image, and concepts of beauty, offer challenges
as they seek to change the shape and style of the body. Sports
sociologists, by examining the body, have been able to question theidea of what we mean by ‘natural’, have allowed us to place theexcesses of training and preparation in context, and have forced us toexplore the possible costs of current sporting technologies that areused to manipulate the body. Many new areas of research are stillbeing uncovered, especially with relation to the cultural and historicalunderstanding of the body.
Further reading : Booth (2001), Coakley (1998), Hoberman (1992), Loy et al.
(1993), Shilling (1994)
BODY COMPOSITION
The human body is composed of a variety of different types of tis-
sues, which are generally categorized as ‘lean’ tissues, including bone,muscle and organs, and adipose or ‘fat’ tissue. T otal Body Composi-tion is a lean-to-fat ratio and is generally referred to as the percentage
of body fat. The average percent body fat is 15–18 per cent for men
and 22–25 per cent for women while amongst highly trained endur-ance athletes these ﬁgures may be as low as 5 per cent for men and 12per cent for women. Figures below this are considered unhealthy asare ﬁgures over 25 per cent for men and 32 per cent for women sincethey correlate highly with illness and disease. Body composition canbe estimated and assessed in a number of ways. Among these,hydrostatic or ‘underwater’ weighing is considered the ‘gold stan-
dard’. Bio-impedance is a more easily conducted but controversial
assessment technique. Use of skin-fold measurements is still amongthe most widely employed and reliable techniques when performedBODY COMPOSITION
28