concerned with the conservation and restoration of energy, whereas
the sympathetic system enables the body to be prepared for ﬂight orﬁght, and controls such responses as heart rate, blood pressure andcardiac output.
BAT AND BALL GAMES
Scholars have puzzled endlessly over the origin of ball games, andhave come to no solid conclusion about the genesis of these activities,which are to be found in all cultures and which we know have exis-ted in various forms across time. Henderson has suggested that all
modern games played with bat and ball come from one common
source – an ancient fertility rite observed by priest-kings in Egypt.He notes that in practically all early cultures we ﬁnd traces of reli-gious rites practised in spring involving two parties that dramatisedthe conﬂict between winter and summer and in which the ballrepresented the sun, source of life, warmth and energy and fertilityfor the growth of crops and thus food. Primitive and ancient sports,such as the ball games of the Mayans and the Aztecs, were played
within the sacred precincts of a temple, and were probably forms of
worship. They ended with an act of human sacriﬁce. The ritual
quality of such activity has led Sansone to suggest that sport can be
best thought of as the ritual sacriﬁce of human energy. These pagangames took on religious signiﬁcance in a Christian world. We ﬁndball games played in churchyards and against the walls of churchesbetween buttresses, games which are precursors to handball, ﬁves andother ‘wall’ games. By contrast, in Greek and Roman societies, the
ball was generally used as a means of conditioning the body – the
medicine ball – although harpastum is thought to be a forerunner offootball and perhaps hurling.
As Money (1997: 2) notes, the ﬁrst possible mention of football in
England is in William Fitzstephen’s ‘Descriptio nobilissimoe civitatisLondoniae’ (1174) written as a preface to his Life of Thomas Becket .
Fitzstephen notes that ‘Every year on the day which is called Carnival[now Shrove Tuesday] ...the entire youth of the city goes into the
ﬁelds for the famous game of ball’.
Ball games that involved kicking a ball or hitting a ball with the
hand required very little equipment and could thus be readily playedby people of all classes. Thus, we ﬁnd calcio in Italy, la soule inFrance, but we also ﬁnd hurling in Cornwall and in Ireland, andshinty in Scotland. With the development of bats and later rackets,BAT AND BALL GAMES
24