and gate receipts, wages and other income had to be accounted for.
In Britain, the middle and upper classes were central in the formationof committees that would oversee the drawing up of rules, and whopresented themselves as the custodians of sport. While such commit-
tees, the ﬁrst embodiment of sporting bureaucracy, were amateur, this
work rapidly became professionalised: club secretaries, accountantsand other ofﬁcers were appointed on a paid basis to ensure that anygiven sport, association or club ran smoothly. In the post-SecondWorld War era, as the sports business rapidly expanded and becameincreasingly global, so paid ofﬁcials became ever more important. Nomajor sporting organisation can now function without an extensivebureaucracy, which is able to lease with television companies, players,
agents, national governments and international federations.
See also :administration, management
Further reading : Hall (1987)
BURN-OUT
Unlike over-training , burn-out can affect both athletes and coaches
alike, because it is as much, if not more, related to individual factors as
it is to job or activity demands. Burn-out tends to accompany thosewith a high need for success. These individuals have a tendency toshoulder responsibilities themselves, and often believe that the only wayto get things done properly is to do it themselves. They tend to taketotal responsibility for success (and failure) and thus carry enormous
pressures and burdens. For professional coaches at the highest levels, in
particular, where a job is dependent on on-going success, the tendencyto burn out is particularly strong. The impact of burn-out on inter-personal relationships amongst players or between players and coachestends to be one of alienation, so that coaches and athletes tend tobecome less concerned about others and more concerned about them-selves. Feelings of lack of appreciation and a tendency towards ‘blaming’ –either others, themselves or the situation – are typical responses to
such problems and are indicative of burn-out. Appropriate emotional,
psychological and social support, along with ‘well deﬁned’ periods ofinvolvement in sport (a limited-term contract) are some of themethods being used to limit burn-out amongst players and coaches atthe highest levels. However, it should be appreciated that burn-outcan take place at all levels of sporting performance and amongst athletesBURN-OUT
32