prevented play. T o counter this problem, supplementary fund-raising
events are now often held alongside beneﬁt matches to generate morerevenue and to spread the ﬁnancial risk.
Beneﬁts originated in cricket in the nineteenth century as money-
raising events for veteran professionals nearing retirement in an erawhen there were no state pensions. The intention was to provide anest-egg to enable players to set themselves up after retirement fromthe sport, usually at an age when their contemporaries were stillemployed. Initially beneﬁts were designed to encourage player loyalty,only being awarded after many years’ service. Historically this wasaround ﬁfteen years for cricketers and ﬁve or more for footballers.More recently, there has been a trend for star players rather than the
journeyman professionals to be offered a beneﬁt; indeed many such
players have this written into their contracts. This has, of course,changed the nature of the beneﬁt from a tax-free one to being part ofexpected income and thus liable to normal taxation procedures.Players now commonly employ professional fund-raisers to arrangeand run their beneﬁt appeals. It is likely that the beneﬁt will becomeless important as personal, portable and contributory pensions comeon stream for professional sportsmen.
See also :economics, sporting heroes
Further reading : Vamplew and Sandiford (1999)
BIOMECHANICS
Often described as involving the interrelationship of the biologic and
material properties of the skeletal , articular and neuromuscular sys-
tems and the laws and principles of mechanics, biomechanics is con-
cerned with factors that affect movement of the body both internal(e.g. muscular form) and external (e.g. gravity , friction). In sport and
physical activity, it is also concerned with the movement of imple-
ments or equipment used in athletics, exercise, games and sports.
Efﬁcient and effective human movement is dependent upon the
coordinated integration of the skeletal ,muscular andnervous systems.
Thus appropriate neural stimulation activates muscular contraction
that in turn generates muscular force which moves our anatomicallevers . When combined with mechanics, which is the branch of
physical science which deals with the physical laws and principlesrelating to objects at rest or in motion, biomechanics is the study ofBIOMECHANICS
26