the traditional hitting, catching and throwing games could be
enhanced. The development of different types of balls – wooden,those of leather or cloth ﬁlled with stufﬁng, and those made fromanimal bladders and ﬁlled with air – led to further variations on the
themes of kicking and hitting, catching and throwing.
Games such as bandy, shinty, croquet, cricket, hockey, golf, base-
ball, rounders, stick ball, bat and trap, trapball, lacrosse, stoolball and
bowling all required particular types of open space in which to beplayed. Some required speciﬁc ‘goals’. T ennis, rackets, ﬁves, handball,squash and pelota all require spaces with particular structures (walls,buttresses, etc.) to facilitate play. As we have moved from traditionalto modern societies, these spaces and structures have undergone the
kind of modernisation which Guttmann describes in his treatise on
the nature of modern sport, so that the rationale behind the playing
of bat and ball games in Western societies has changed from being forritualistic purposes to the achievement of records. The degree oftechnical sophistication and rationality now attached to bat and ballgames bears continuing witness to this development.
In trying to classify bat and ball games, no obvious system has
emerged or been developed. Categorisation has been attempted in
a number of ways varying from number of players (team vs. indivi-dual) to type of equipment and facilities (racket games, net games,court games, wall games) to the goal of the game (invasion games).None of these categories helps codify clearly the broad range of batand ball games played in cultures and countries around the world,suggesting the diversity of contexts, motivations, meanings and ben-eﬁts which bat and ball games offer.
Further reading : Brailsford (1992), Guttmann (1978), Henderson (1947),
Money (1997), Sansone (1988)
BENEFITS
Beneﬁts provide an additional source of income for sportspersons.Usually they have taken the form of the net proceeds from either aspecially organised ‘friendly’ match – most common in the footballcodes – or from a competitive championship ﬁxture. This was riskyas expenses were ﬁxed but revenue was not. Sometimes clubs might
guarantee a minimum sum in case of bad weather or unanticipated
events lowered expected attendance. In the past this was not alwaysthe case and some county cricketers actually lost money when rainBENEFITS
25