of all ages. Examples of young athletes suffering burn-out after being
pushed by parents and coaches to succeed, abound and offer soberingexamples of the impact of the pressure for success.
See also :over-training
Further reading : Dale and Weinberg (1990), Henschen (1996), Kallus and
Kellman (2000), Weinberg and Gould (1999)
CALLISTHENICS
Callisthenics is a form of free body exercise. Callisthenics emerged inthe nineteenth century and was promoted by pioneers in the moderngymnastic world such as Adolf Speiss and Friedrich Ludwig Jahn.
Although having its original base in the European nations of Sweden
and Germany, callisthenics spread around the world. In the UnitedStates, Catherine Beecher was an important ﬁgure in its promotionand development. Beecher promoted callisthenics as an ideal form ofexercise for women, but ultimately it would appeal to both sexes.
Although some light apparatus is sometimes used (such as rings),
callisthenics is largely apparatus free. The exercises, which are sup-
posed to stretch all muscle groups, include movements such as
bending, swinging, jumping and so on. Callisthenics promotes gen-
eral well-being, and speciﬁcally advances strength and ﬂexibility. Theexercises are especially useful in that they promote cardiovascularactivity. Although often used as stand alone exercises, callisthenics arealso used by many other athletes as a way of warming up.
CARDIAC OUTPUT
The product of heart rate (HR) and stroke volume (SV), cardiacoutput (CO) is the total volume of blood pumped by the left ven-tricle per minute, and is measured in litres per minute (L/min).During exercise, cardiac output increases in order to supply adequateamounts of oxygen and nutrients to working muscles and clear awaywaste products. The resting value for cardiac output is approximately5n˜0 L/min and increases between 20 and 40 L/min depending on
the individual and their level of training, with the relationshipbetween cardiac output and exercise intensity being essentially apositive linear relationship.CARDIAC OUTPUT
33