CARTELS
Some economists view the various sports leagues as business cartels,
created in order to reduce economic competition. They see an
arrangement of ﬁrms (football clubs, basketball clubs, etc.) that agree
to pursue joint policies with respect to key aspects of the environ-ment in which they operate (super league, county cricket cham-pionship, etc.). Such policies might cover pricing (minimumadmission charges), distribution of revenue (pooling of gate receipts),output (ﬁxture schedules), supply of inputs (restrictions on playermobility), or cost of inputs (maximum wages). Sports cartels emergefrom the mutual interdependence of clubs: the gate revenue of any
club depends on the performance of all clubs. Clubs may be sports
competitors but they can be economic partners. Only one team can
win the championship but, in an effective cartel, all clubs can makeproﬁts. In many respects sports cartels resemble industrial ones, but
with two major differences. First, most clubs have some degree ofgeographical monopoly with regard to their fan base, hence there isless danger than for a business cartel of a price-cutting war eruptingto secure customers. Second, there is little chance of a club uni-
laterally opting to increase its output: indeed it is hard to conceive of
any club voluntarily quitting a league and remaining an effectivecompetitor in the industry. Sporting leagues are cartels where entryand exit is rigidly controlled. They are not competitive industries in
which ﬁrms can freely come and go.
The effective operation of a sports cartel requires a central, decision-
making body with the power to discipline members for rule infractions,
to impose cost-minimising regulations such as salary caps , maximum
wages , territorial restrictions on recruitment, maximum team rosters
and impediments on player mobility , and to operate group revenue-
raising policies, especially with regard to the sale of media rights.
See also :economics
Further reading : Gratton and Taylor (1985)
CATEGORISATION
It is a useful analytical device to divide sports into types. A simpleformat is to talk of invasion games such as football and rugby, wheremoving into an opponent’s territory is a key feature; court gamesCARTELS
34