The most widespread source of coaching expertise lies with those
who have trained as physical education teachers, since they combine
pedagogical skills with an understanding of movement skill develop-ment, and an appreciation for individual differences in ability, moti-
vation and commitment amongst athletes. It is largely for these
reasons that this group of individuals offer the most in both thedevelopment of coaching and in the practice of coaching.
See also :National Coaching Foundation
Further reading : Armour et al. (2003), Cassidy et al. (2004), Lyle (2002)
COGNITION
Cognition is the technical term for thinking. In sports, an athlete’s
thoughts and emotions can inﬂuence performance quality and out-come both positively and negatively. Researchers have attempted toascertain the thoughts and feelings of elite, consistently successfulathletes both before and during the contest in contrast to less suc-
cessful competitors and non-athletes in order to ascertain the impact
of cognition on performance. Many elite athletes now employ arange of cognitive strategies, such as imagery and visualisation, posi-tive self-talk, attribution training, and mental practice in order toimprove performance.
COLLECTIVE MEMORY
Sport has the ability to have a powerful impact on society. Since theadvent of modern sport, there has been a host of events that havebecome seminal, legendary and mythologised. In the same way thatpeople remember where they were when Kennedy was shot, or aman landed on the moon, so sports events become part of the col-lective memory. Such memories are not solely the product of havingbeen in the stadium and seeing the game ‘live’, but can also be pro-
duced through the media , and live broadcasts on television or
radio. Modern communications now allow entire nations, indeed the
entire globe, to be present at a sporting event. Sporting events thatare indicative of collective memory are often those that are connectedwith major international sporting festivals and projected to the widerpopulation by the media . However, as many forms of collectiveCOLLECTIVE MEMOR Y
41