still used by those classes who possess power in society to organise
sports and games that protect the status quo. Sport can be used toseparate one social class from another through the use of exclusiveclubs. Private members’ clubs in sports such as golf, polo, or even
gyms, exclude those who do not have the economic or social power
to join. It has been argued that in the wake of the Taylor Report, andthe construction of new football stadia in England, ticket prices havebeen raised to such an extent that working-class supporters can nolonger afford to enter the ground. Despite its exclusivity, sport hasbeen successfully used by many athletes to break out of their ownsocial class. Boxing has been one sport where athletes have been ableto escape from the ghetto, and in the process achieve wealth. One
would question however, whether a boxer such as Mike T yson, who
has undoubtedly become rich through his sport, has been able tobreak out of his class location into the elite ranks of class society,given his brushes with the law and his time spent in prison.
The most important element of class control in sport has always
been the issue of ownership. Throughout history the majority ofsports associations, federations and organisations have been run by theelite within society. Any assessment of the men and women who have
made up the committee of the International Olympic Committee,
the Jockey Club or the Football Association would demonstrate howfew working-class people have been represented. The same is true ofthe media and sporting goods industries attached to contemporarysport. Power in these industries predominantly rests with a smallgroup of white, well educated and well connected men. Class, then,is an essential instrument through which the power relationships insport can be understood.
Further reading : Eitzen (1995), Hargreaves (1986), Lowerson (1993), Sugden
and T omlinson (2000)
CLOSED LOOP
A closed-loop model has a processing loop to bring information into
the motor system while movement is occurring, rather than waitinguntil the completion of the movement, as in the open-loop model.This means that the closed-loop model can provide on-going feed-
back and correction, thereby reducing errors during the movement.
Supporters of the closed-loop model point to the deterioration ofperformance when feedback is withdrawn as evidence of support forCLOSED LOOP
39