sportsperson is injured by the foul or negligent play of an opponent,
he or she may seek redress through the courts for the resulting loss ofincome and career prospects. Generally, required standards of proofare less in civil than in criminal law .
See also :criminal law
CLASS
The notion that society is made up of a range of different andhierarchical classes has long been central to studies in areas such as
history andsociology . Although some form of societal distinction
has always existed, the class system has its origins in the process of
industrialisation which began in the eighteenth century. In Britain,
the creation of an urbanised workforce, dependent on factoryowners for employment, led to the emergence of the working class.Traders, some professionals and factory owners were grouped toge-ther as the middle class, while members of the old professions such asthe law, the landed gentry and the social elite formed the upper class.
The class system in Britain was, as Lowerson (1993) has demon-
strated, central to the emergence of modern sport. The codiﬁcationof sport was viewed as essential to the wider control of the leisuretime and activities of the working classes. The better that sport andother forms of recreation could be controlled by the hierarchy, theeasier it was to maintain the social order. The on-going class dis-tinctiveness of sport featured well into the twentieth century. Incricket, the amateur /professional divide that was maintained until
the 1960s, was effectively a distinction that revolved around the
concepts of gentlemen and players. Broad assumptions were madeabout the class following of any given game, so that football was seenas the ‘people’s game’, that is, working-class, while rugby union waspredominantly understood as a middle-class and southern-basedpursuit.
In theoretical terms class relations have been understood, according
to Coakley (1998: 35), as the ‘social processes revolving around who
has economic power, how economic power is used, and who is
advantaged or disadvantaged by economic factors in a society’. Manyhistorians and sociologists have examined the issue of class as one thatserves as an agent of change within society, yet one that perpetuatesand heightens social inequalities. The concept of class control thatemerged during the industrial revolution is little changed. Sport isCLASS
38