CHARACTER BUILDING
Sport, particularly in mid-Victorian England, was often viewed as
character building in that the individual would subsume self-interest
under that of the team, obey the orders of the captain without
question, and develop the virtues of courage, manliness and esprit de
corps. Such arguments are still advanced by purists. Others, however,
suggest that the assumption that sport will develop ‘good character’ isa false one. V amplew, for one, has postulated that such virtues may beﬁne at the micro level of the game or the sport, but not within widersociety, where manliness might lead to brutality and arrestable offences,and team solidarity to xenophobia.
See also :muscular Christianity
Further reading : Vamplew (2005b)
CHILDREN
Sport is seen as having positive advantages for children . It can pro-
vide enjoyment and promote physical ﬁtness ; it can result in
improved posture and a healthier lifestyle; and it can help develop
hand-eye coordination and motor skills . Then there are the per-
ceived social goals of sportsmanship , teamwork, responsibility,
commitment and self-discipline. Schools have a major role in assistingthis sporting development of the child. Outside the school, sport for
children is a twentieth-century phenomenon. Prior to that, and
indeed well into the century, the maxim was that if they were big
enough they were old enough to participate in adult sport. For-tunately, a major development of the past two decades has been theintroduction of games with modiﬁed rules, which has assisted parti-cipation as sport has spread down the age scale to the physicallyimmature. Progressively these special rules are eliminated as the chil-dren gain the necessary skills, so that when old enough they can playfully competitive sport.
A major problem with children’s sport is the adults associated with
it, the pushy parents and the coach who seeks victory rather than funand participation. Moreover, following the withdrawal of many tea-chers from extracurricular activities after the union disputes of the1980s, one major source of protection for children disappeared,leaving many youngsters to be coached by unqualiﬁed personnel.CHARACTER BUILDING
36