this model. Movements that take larger than 200 milliseconds to
perform appear to enable on-going corrections to be made.
Further reading : Adams (1971), Magill (1998), Schmidt and Lee (1999)
COACHING
Reasons why individuals participate in sport and physical activity are
as wide ranging and varied as the opportunities available. These mayrange from the pure joy of participation in physical activity, toespoused social and moral beneﬁts, to economic and material reward.
The ‘coach’ is generally the person charged with imparting the
knowledge and skill necessary to achieve those desired ends throughcoaching.
While there is little disagreement amongst those involved in sport
and physical activity that good coaching can enhance a performer’slevel of performance and degree of enjoyment, the question of whoshould be coaching, what qualities and characteristics they shouldpossess, what experience they should have had and what qualiﬁca-
tions they should hold, have long been topics of debate. Since the
late 1970s in Great Britain, there have been efforts to develop a
strategy to enhance coaching education, and each individual sporting
association recognised by Sport UK has developed coaching educa-tion programmes, coaching structures, coaching levels and examina-tions. In recent years, the National Coaching Foundation has
been set up to help in these efforts and, in so doing, has attempted tobring some degree of standardisation to qualiﬁcations.
The vast majority of coaches are volunteers who themselves were
enthusiastic and often skilled performers. Many elite performers whowish to continue their association with and participation in a sport,once their own playing days are over, turn to coaching. An on-goingand apparently irresolvable issue in coaching is whether experience asan elite performer is a necessary and/or a sufﬁcient condition forcoaching success. Generally, it has been assumed that the elite per-former’s experience is not a sufﬁcient condition for coaching success
at any level, but it may be a necessary condition for coaching success
at the elite levels, since the coach who has experience at the elitelevel can more readily identify with the issues faced by elite athletes,and also has more in common with elite athletes. By contrast, thecoach who was an elite athlete may be less able to help athletes whoare not as gifted in terms of talent and ability.COACHING
40