See also :colonisation, cultural imperialism, decolonisation
Further reading : Bale and Cronin (2002), Guttmann (1994), Mangan (1992),
Sugden and T omlinson (2000)
COLONISATION
Many European nations, in search of new territory, wealth and raw
materials, undertook a policy of colonisation from the seventeenthcentury. Foremost in this process were the nations of Britain, France,
Holland, Portugal and Spain. In the nineteenth century they would
be joined by Germany and Italy. Formal colonisation, that is placinganother country under the jurisdiction of the colonising nation,produced a situation where European values, ideas, religion and pas-times, amongst other things, were transferred to Africa, Asia, SouthAmerica and the Caribbean. The transfer of sporting forms andvalues was a key part of the colonial mission. That is not to say thatall indigenous sporting forms were destroyed by the process of colo-
nisation, or that the colonisers were left unaffected by the local
sporting practices that they witnessed. It is clear however, thatsports such as cricket, football, rugby, horse racing and many otherswere spread around the world by those European nations that werecolonising their imperial possessions. The process of colonisationwas formalised through the process of organising internationalsporting organisations. Bodies such as the ruling body of cricket, theMCC, invited colonial nations into the club of cricketing nations.
By accepting the legitimacy of the MCC, colonial nations accepted
the domination of Britain and the power of its empire. Sportssuch as cricket and rugby, which have spread as a result of colonialenterprise, became symbols of loyalty to the empire. The acceptanceof the ‘white’ empire nations such as Australia or South Africa,and later the ‘black’ nations of India and the West Indies into crick-eting competition, demonstrated that the process of colonisation hadbeen successful, as British values had been championed across the
globe.
See also :colonialism, cultural imperialism, decolonisation
Further reading : Birley (1995), Cronin and Holt (2001), MacKenzie (1989),
Mangan (1992)COLONISATION
43