memory are nation-speciﬁc, the force or poignancy of the memory
will vary depending of an individual’s nationality. Examples of sport-ing collective memory for English people might include their victoryin the 1966 football World Cup ﬁnals, Cathy Freeman’s success at the
Sydney Olympics would serve Australians, while Americans might
all recall the career of Michael Jordan on the basketball court. On the
global level, events of signiﬁcance that enter the collective memoryinclude the killings of Israeli athletes at the 1972 Olympics, thegymnastic perfection of Olga Korbut, or the French victory in the1998 football World Cup ﬁnals.
See also :media, sporting heroes, television
COLONIALISM
A product of the formal process of colonisation , colonialism was
historically understood as the ideological spread of the ideas of the
occupying nation to the population of the colonised country. TheBritish Empire was a major force in the process of colonialism. The
spread of British ideas, practices and values across the world was aided
by its control of a large proportion of the world’s countries. Whilemany of the features of colonialism were connected to formal con-cepts such as military control, the law and ﬁnance, informal aspectssuch as sport were equally important, and the effects just as long-standing. The process of colonialism in the British Empire was centralto the global spread of speciﬁc sports such as cricket, football, golfand rugby. It was equally powerful in transferring the ideologies of
fair play ,muscular Christianity and gentlemanly conduct across
the globe.
The process of sporting colonialism has not ended with the retreat
of nations such as Britain from formal empire. Rather than being
spread through military conquest and colonial governments, ideas andpractices are now diffused by multinational corporations, the mediaand advertising. Colonialism, it can be argued is still an on-goingprocess, although more often understood and labelled as globalisa-
tion. Companies such as Nike use sporting icons such as Michael
Jordan in advertising to ensure that their products are sold through-out the world. Sports organisations, whether the InternationalOlympic Committee or FIFA, can also be understood as agents ofcolonialism, as they see one of their primary functions to spread theirsport, organisation and ethos throughout the globe.COLONIALISM
42