such as tennis, badminton and ﬁves where a net or wall is used; target
games such as golf and archery; and conquest sports such as moun-taineering. One of the ﬁrst to present such an analysis was Huizinga,whose categorisation encompassed pursuit (chase), enigma (mental),
chance (gamble), vertigo (heady), strategy (planning), imitation (pre-
tence), dexterity (skill) and exultation (excitement). Then Caillois in1961 promoted a four-part categorisation of agon (competition),mimicry (pretence), alean (chance) and ilinx (vertigo). He was fol-lowed three years later by McIntosh, who proposed competition,aesthetic, combat, chance and conquest. Crum, for the purpose ofexamining the motivation of participants, has produced a more recentset of categories that identiﬁes seven groupings. In elite sport the
dominant motives are absolute achievement, status and money. At
competitive club sport level, the participants are attracted by a mix ofthe excitement of competition, the pursuit of subjective achievement,and social contact. In recreational sport relaxation, health and toge-therness come to the fore. The dominant motive in ﬁtness sports isobviously physical ﬁtness, whereas that in risk and adventure sports
is thrill. Hedonism and exclusive pleasure feature in what Crum
terms the ‘lust sports’ that focus on sun, sea, sand, snow, sex, speed
and satisfaction. Finally, he identiﬁes physical appearance as being the
main thrust of cosmetic sports.
Further reading : Caillois (2001), Crum (1999), Huizinga (1950), McIntosh (1979)
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
The central nervous system (CNS) is divided into two parts: the brain
and the spinal cord. These serve as the main processing centre for thewhole of the nervous system, gather information from both insideand outside the body, and control all of the workings of the body.The brain sends messages to the spinal cord and body through neurons.These messages are sent in electrical signals that are converted intochemical signals at the synapse. The spinal cord conducts sensory infor-
mation from the peripheral nervous system to the brain and conducts
motor information from the brain to the muscles and glands. Both
the brain and the spinal cord consist of ‘white matter’ – bundles ofaxons each coated with a protective sheath of myelin, and ‘greymatter’ – masses of cell bodies and dendrites each covered with synapses.
See also :anatomy and physiologyCENTRAL NER VOUS SYSTEM
35