and so on), a match based on goals or points scored (football, baseball
etc.) or routines that are awarded a mark (ﬁgure skating, gymnasticsand so on). The competition will allow athletes to measure theirperformance against each other, and for one player or team to emerge
as the winner. In addition to direct competition against another
contestant, many sports people will also get a sense of achievement incompeting against the elements. For example, mountaineers or sailorsmay not be involved in a direct contest against anyone, but will becompeting against the forces of nature.
When modern codiﬁed sport emerged in the nineteenth century,
the spirit of competition was enshrined in the rules. All sports usedrules and scoring systems so that a clear winner emerged. Historians
have argued that the embrace of the competitive ethos in modern
codiﬁed sport replicated the prevailing sense of competition that wasinherent in nineteenth-century life. All aspects of life were seen ascompetitive. This included competition in business, educational sys-tems that were based on academic competition and even the battlesbetween nations for imperial possessions.
While competition is accepted as the basis of modern sport, espe-
cially at the elite level, there have been questions raised about whe-
ther such an emphasis on winning the competition is damaging.
While comments such as ‘winning isn’t everything; it’s the onlything’ (attributed to Green Bay Packer’s coach Vince Lombardi), areseen as exemplifying the purpose and spirit of competition, othershave challenged this perspective. In the Olympic Games, for example(and in many school sports for younger children), the emphasis is ontaking part in the competition, rather than winning it. The spirit ofthe Olympics is summed up by the famous statement, ‘the most
important thing in the Olympic Games is not to win but to take part’
which favours competing over competition based on victory.
Further reading : Bailey (2000)
CONDITIONING
When coaches and athletes talk of ﬁtness andconditioning , a central
component is aerobic ﬁtness. It is generally agreed by exercise scien-tists that to maintain and develop aerobic ﬁtness, the training principlesof speciﬁcity, overload and progression along with individual differ-ences need to be addressed when developing conditioning programmes.However, it is also recognised that overall conditioning can aid bothCONDITIONING
46