INTRODUCTION
At the start of the 2001/2 football season in Britain, there was a mass
of media comment about the amount of football that would be
screened on television during the season. It was claimed that by
switching between the different terrestrial, satellite and cable provi-ders, the avid fan could watch four live games every day, amounting
to over forty hours of viewing per week. A fresh deal, signed inAugust 2004 with Sky television, and running for three seasons,netted the Premier League £1,024 billion for their television rights.This marked a massive increase on the ﬁgure for the previous deal,signed in 1998 and worth £670 million. Football is a booming
industry, the home of multi-million pound players, the subject of
huge media interest and a favourite of corporate advertisers. The2006 World Cup ﬁnals in Germany were the product of E4.6 billion
worth of infrastructure investment by the state and private business.
During the tournament, while the eyes of the global television audi-ence were on Germany, some 2 million spectators and tourists visitedthe country, spending an estimated E600 million. The presence of
the World Cup in Germany created 50,000 new jobs, half of which
would be permanent and outlast the duration of the tournament.
Adidas sold 15 million replica shirts around the world in the sixmonths leading up to the ﬁnals, while ﬂag sales across Europeincreased 1000 per cent as fans displayed their colours.
As evidenced by the World Cup, the scale of sports activity across
the world at the start of the twenty-ﬁrst century is immense. Themulti-million pound ﬁgures that are paid for television rights, and totop performers in wages and sponsorship agreements, rely on the idea
that there is an insatiable appetite amongst the viewing population for
sport. Modern sport emerged as part of a range of social changes thatwere the product of the Industrial Revolution. In the ensuing cen-tury and a half since many of the major sporting associations cameinto existence, the sport and leisure industry has grown to be one ofthe biggest in the world. In recent years the continuing speed and
vi