COMMERCIAL DEEPENING seecommercialisation
COMMERCIALISATION
The commercialisation of sport refers to sport becoming subject to
the market forces of commerce. Commercialism has never beenabsent from sport. What has changed has been its extent and inten-sity. In the eighteenth century, and even earlier, some proﬁt-seekingentrepreneurs created special premises for sporting activities, such ascockpits and bear pits, to which they charged entry fees. Publicansalso laid out bowling greens beside their alehouses to attract a
drinking clientele. Later, boxing saloons served the same purpose,
though more for spectators than participants. The late nineteenthcentury saw the burgeoning of gate-money sport organised regularlyat speciﬁc sites created for the purpose, to take advantage of themarket created by a wealthier, urbanised population with time tospare. These attempts to attract paying spectators led inevitably to theemergence on a large scale of professionalism in sport, as the skilled
players – whom the crowds paid to see – demanded a share of the
revenue which their talents generated.
Commercial widening occurs when more revenue is obtained from
traditional gate revenue sources, such as the playing of more games or
the expansion of stadium capacity, when there is excess demand forthe event being sold. Commercial deepening involves the develop-ment of new revenue sources such as sponsorship, merchandising,signage and media rights. T oday, at the elite level, sport and commerceare irreversibly intertwined, though gate money is becoming a less
signiﬁcant source of revenue as income from television rights and
merchandising increases in importance. Product improvement
involves modifying the original sporting competition so as to attract
larger audiences, either for one event or over a season. Such changesinclude the establishment of new competitions within the sport or theintroduction of play-offs for promotion from one division to another,matches that add excitement to the sporting calendar but do notchange the essence of the traditional game. Product development ,
on the other hand, can drastically change the nature of a sport and the
way in which it is played. A prime example here is one-day cricketwhich, although still a contest between bat and ball, requires differenttactics and some different rules from the normal ﬁrst-class match.
See also :economics, marketing, mediaCOMMERCIAL DEEPENING
44