health-related and motor performance ﬁtness. Accordingly, exercise
scientists, coaches and trainers recommend a total exercise pro-gramme which includes strengthening exercises to maintain overallbody strength and muscle mass, as well as stretching and ﬂexibility
exercises to maintain mobility, and proper joint function, appropriate
for a particular individual.
In recommending aerobic ﬁtness programmes for conditioning of
athletes, exercise physiologists have developed a number of formulaebased on norms, to ensure desired conditioning effects. These for-mulae are based on the need for control of three important factorspertinent to how hard, how often and how long we exercise. Thesefactors are intensity of exercise, frequency of exercise and duration of
exercise. The intensity of exercise is perhaps the most critical of these
factors since if a sufﬁcient level of intensity is not reached there willbe no conditioning or training effect. On the other hand, if intensityis too high then injury is likely. The standard measures of intensity aretarget heart rate (expressed in terms of percentage of maximum) andtarget VO
2Max (expressed in terms of percentage of VO 2Max).
Such measures enable athletes to monitor the level of intensity andthe degree of stress they are undergoing during conditioning. The
level of intensity employed will depend on the individual athlete and
the goals of the conditioning programme.
How often an athlete trains again depends on their goals. However,
general conditioning rates vary from between three times a week to
six or more times per week. Those who train more frequently thanthis are more subject to the effects of over-training and injury,
because their bodies are not able to adapt to this level of frequency.With regard to duration, again, the length of a conditioning session
must depend on the goals being attempted. For cardio-respiratory or
aerobic ﬁtness, at least twenty minutes of reasonably intense exerciseis necessary to engender adaptations in the system. Obviously, forthose training to run marathons the speciﬁcity principle will ensurethat greater duration of conditioning will be necessary!
Further reading : Brooks et al. (1996), Corbin and Lindsey (1984, 1997), Fox
et al. (1987), Howley and Franks (1997), Wilmore (1982)
CONFLICT THEORY
Whereas the supporters of functionalism believe that a balanced
society works for the good of all, proponents of conﬂict theory argueCONFLICT THEORY
47