sport has grown and seasons have lengthened, it has become increasingly
difﬁcult for such Corinthian ﬁgures to survive. It was for this reasonthat Geoffrey Moorhouse, in the Daily T elegraph of 4 June 1979, sug-gested that M. M. Walford, who was educated at Rugby School and
Oxford in the 1930s, and gained blues in cricket, rugby and hockey,
may have been the last of the Corinthians. Whilst a schoolmaster atSherborne School, W alford topped the county batting averages and wenton an England cricket tour, was an England trialist at rugby, and wouldhave been capped against Ireland if he had not been playing hockey forthe Great Britain team which he captained at the 1948 Olympic Games .
See also :amateurism
Further reading : Birley (1993), Cashmore (1996), Doggart (1999), Grayson
(1996), Taylor (2006)
CORRUPTION
Generally the result of a sports event is determined on merit, with per-haps some intervention by luck. Sometimes, however, corruption plays arole in that the winner or loser may be predetermined or a compe-titor cheats to gain an advantage. It has been argued that the growth
ofextrinsic rewards in modern sport, fuelled by commercialisation,
has encouraged a widespread increase in corrupt practices, but there is
no strong evidence to support this view, though some would suggestthat there has been a decline in sportsmanship .Intrinsic motiva-
tion may be sufﬁcient to persuade participants to break the rules if
they feel that it will help them win and they will not be found out.Both historically and today, most serious corruption in sport stemsfrom its relationship with gambling and the money that can be made
in the betting market if it is known that a competitor or team will
not be trying their best. It could be argued that corruption in sport isto the extreme of a spectrum which also includes cheating andgamesmanship and is distinguished by breaking not just the writtenand unwritten rules of the game but also the law of the land.
COSMETIC SPORTS
In cosmetic sports the focus is on the appearance of the participants,as in the styling and shaping of the physique in bodybuilding. T o aCORRUPTION
50