also their history, development, myths, icons, and the social, economic
and political issues surrounding them. One form of cultural analysisexamines the way that different societies, both historically and con-temporarily, function by looking at the customs, attitudes and values
of the population within each society. Such an examination of lifestyle
includes sport and physical recreation, which often reﬂect the patternof traditions and values of the wider society within which they exist.Most analysts differentiate between ancient cultures, where sportingactivities are revealed by the work of archaeologists; primitive culturesof tribal societies, for which the ethnographic studies of social anthro-pologists are invaluable in revealing the meanings of rituals attached tophysical activities; emergent or developing countries, who use sport as
part of nation-building; and advanced societies where sport has become
an institution in an industrial, urban-based culture. Another culturalanalysis approach distinguishes mass culture fromhigh culture .
See also :anthropology
CULTURAL IMPERIALISM
There are two distinct periods and types of cultural imperialism. Theﬁrst, which belongs to the period of formal colonisation , led to the
spread of games such as cricket and football, as Britain and other
European nations built up their empires. By introducing foreigngames to colonial nations, and encouraging the indigenous popula-tion to play them, imperial powers were undertaking a process ofcultural imperialism. In addition to playing ‘native’ games, the indi-
genous population were accepting the sports of the imperialist, as
well as the codes of conduct and ethos that accompanied them. It wasnot simply a matter of playing cricket or rugby, it was also acceptingthe allied ideologies of Victorian masculinity fair play , gentlemanly
conduct and the word of the umpire. Cultural imperialism was theexportation of colonial ideals through the use of cultural forms suchas sport. A similar process has been evident in the years since the endof the Second World War. It has been argued that globalisation or,
as it is sometimes referred to, Americanisation, is the contemporaryform of cultural imperialism. Although no state is formally seeking toannex another and make it a part of an empire, companies such asNike, Reebok, and the NFL and NBA, have sought to expand theirmarket reach around the world. In doing so they have changed cus-toms, habits and thinking. Assisted by the media ,sponsorship andCULTURAL IMPERIALISM
53