degree, it can be seen as part of a narcissist culture where participants
become preoccupied with self-image. As a competitive sport, body-building is unusual in that little physical activity takes place save for aseries of poses. The real physicality of the sport comes in pre-
competition training, in working out with weights to reshape the
physique by adding muscle mass, and by increasing both the separa-tion and deﬁnition of the muscle groups. Modern bodybuildingemerged from the popularity of the ‘strong man’ demonstrations byEugene Sandow in the late nineteenth century. But for somedecades, displays of strength and athletic feats, rather than of physi-que, remained central to competitive physical culture. Nevertheless,by the late 1940s bodybuilding had made the jump from exhibition
to competition. Bodybuilding for women has struggled more than
most female sports for public recognition. Early twentieth-centurybodybuilding competitions for women were prosecuted as porno-graphic; those of the 1970s derided as beauty pageants. The past twodecades have seen the acceptance within the sport of female body-builders, but there is still societal disapproval of women who pursueit. Western society has generally equated femininity with curva-ceousness and softness, not the muscularity and hardness of the
bodybuilder.
See also :aesthetics
Further reading : Crum (1999)
COST -BENEFIT ANALYSIS
In order to assess the merit of investment in a project, economists
often undertake a cost-beneﬁt analysis that compares the perceivedbeneﬁts of an activity with the costs of undertaking it. In sport suchbeneﬁts might include the increased health and ﬁtness of partici-pants, the employment that could be generated by an event or pro-ject, and the externalities that could be generated. These would
have to be quantiﬁed in money terms so that they could be weighed
against the costs and a rate of return on the money invested calcu-
lated. In this way different projects, or variations of the same project,
can be compared and rational investment decisions made. Private
investors will be concerned solely with the direct ﬁnancial beneﬁtsand the economic rate of return on their investment, whereasthose calling on public funds will also take account of the social rateCOST -BENEFIT ANALYSIS
51