Further reading : Lewis and Appenzeller (1985), Vamplew (2005b)
COMMERCIAL WIDENING seecommercialisation
COMMONWEALTH GAMES
The roots of the Commonwealth Games lie with their forerunner,
the Empire Games. The ﬁrst Empire Games were held in Hamilton,Canada in 1930. The Empire Games were designed speciﬁcally tobring together the nations of the British Empire in friendly compe-
tition. In effect the games were building on the sporting links that
had been established through the process of British colonisation .I n
the wake of the Second World War, the rise of nationalism and the
rapid development of decolonisation , the games were renamed the
British Empire and Commonwealth Games in 1952. By 1974 theywere known solely as the Commonwealth Games. The games, whichhave been staged in venues across the Commonwealth, are built onthe Olympic model. They are held in the summer every four years,
and play host to athletes from all the nations of the Commonwealth.
The games have suffered from boycotts , especially that of 1986, but
these have never been on the scale of those that have afﬂicted theOlympics . Despite the positive messages that underpin the games,
they have been largely dominated by white Commonwealth nations.Despite the encouragement that was given to the nations from Africa,Asia and the Caribbean in the era of decolonisation , only Jamaica
in 1966 and Malaysia in 1998 of all the ‘new’ Commonwealth
nations have hosted the games. With the increased pace of sporting
globalisation , the demands made by television and the need for
sporting events to make a proﬁt, there are concerns that the Com-monwealth Games are no longer relevant as they champion nine-teenth-century imperial ties that have ceased to be important.
Further reading : Bateman and Douglas (1986), Dheensaw (1994), Moore (1988)
COMPETITION
The basis of most sports is competitive. Whether contests involvinghumans, humans and animals or animals, sport will be a competition.The competition can take the form of a race (sprinting, horse racingCOMPETITION
45