that have to be taken into account when understanding power relation-
ships that underpin control. What market forces affect football? Whatpower does television have over sports organisations? How far do
political issues dictate the awarding of the World Cup ﬁnals to a
country? All these wider issues will affect the workings of an organisation
such as FIFA, and shape how it responds to any given situation.Control is thus not simply a question of administrative organisation,but the product of competing power bases. Control is most properlyunderstood as a concept that lies at the heart of many sociologicaldeﬁnitions of sport, and one that is especially important in consideringconﬂict theory . Control is a product of power, and power emanates
from a variety of sources. Control in sport may be a product of a
dominant gender orethnicity , be economic or market driven, or
else will relate to the intervention of government andpolitics .O n
the actual sports ﬁeld, the level of control will be a product of the
power of the referee or umpire, or might refer to the dominant skillsof one team over another, and their ability to ‘control’ the game.
See also :class, conﬂict theory, sociology
Further reading :: Coakley (1998)
CORINTHIANS
A ‘wandering’ football club founded in 1882 by N. L. Jackson with a
membership of ﬁfty on the model of cricket’s I Zingari club, theCorinthians was intended to be an antidote to professionalism in
football. Membership was restricted almost entirely to those public
school and Oxbridge amateurs whose own status was most threatenedby the rising tide of professional teams such as Blackburn Rovers andPreston North End. The term ‘Corinthians’ had previously beenapplied to fashionable young men who were involved in elite horseand coach clubs, and who were concerned with style and mannersrather than racing and winning. The idea of playing in a gentlemanlymanner and in an open and attractive style was continued by Jackson’s
Corinthian footballers, who despised the tactics and style which a
need and desire to win was thought to promote among professionals.
Many members of the Corinthians football club were also talented
cricketers, and thus the term ‘Corinthian’ came to be attached tothose talented amateur all-round athletes, such as C. B. Fry, who couldturn their hand to a variety of sports and play them well. As professionalCORINTHIANS
49