athletes to suggest that wheelchair athletes should compete against
able-bodied athletes in Olympic events.
The oldest international organisation for sport for persons with
disabilities is the International Committee on Silent Sports. Founded
in 1924, it has a close afﬁliation with the World Games for the Deaf.
However, it was the founding of the National Spinal Injuries Centreat the Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Buckinghamshire in 1944 thatsignalled a new direction and emphasis for disability sport. Throughthe work of neurologist Ludwig (later Sir Ludwig) Gunman, whobelieved passionately in the vital role that access to sport played in therehabilitation of those suffering spinal injury or disease, the ﬁrstwheelchair sports programme was born, and in 1948 the ﬁrst orga-
nised wheelchair games were held at Stoke Mandeville. Since that
time, disability sports, and most notably the Olympics for thedisabled – founded in 1960 – which were renamed the Paralympicsin 1980, have grown to become a world-wide phenomenon. Thereare now nine Paralympic categories of disability, and athletes competein nineteen different sports, fourteen of which are Olympic sports.
The disability sports movement is still trying to change media and
public perceptions that such activity is for therapy and recreation for
the participants. Through the efforts of many of these athletes, the
understanding that disability athletes are elite athletes involved in eliteathletic endeavour, is ﬁnally being realised. The 1988 Seoul Paral-ympics saw signiﬁcant changes in this direction, with the ﬁrst IOCdrug testing of some of the 4,000 athletes from over sixty countries
who were competing. The controversy surrounding drug testing inthe Paralympics is even more ﬁerce than in the Olympic Gamesthemselves, because while the rules applied to the Olympics are being
applied to the Paralympics, many of the Paralympic athletes’ condi-
tions require medications which are currently on the IOU’s bannedlist.
In addition to elite level disability sport, there have also been a
number of initiatives to support the participation of disabled childrenin sport. In Britain, for example, the Institute of Y outh Sport laun-ched the TOP Sportsability programme in 1998. This was aimed atdeveloping the sports provision for disabled children across the
country.
See also :discrimination
Further reading : Anderson (2000a), Cashman and Hughes (2000), DePauw
and Gavron (1995), Middleton (1999).DISABILITY SPORT
59