strong efforts to control drug use, they appear to be losing. The stated
aims for controlling drug use are, ﬁrst, to protect the health of ath-letes because of the possible side effects of drug usage; and second, tomaintain fairness in sport since not all athletes have access to such
drugs and thus are disadvantaged. Many athletes and sport philoso-
phers have argued for an athlete’s right to choose to take drugs andagainst the control of such behaviour by groups such as the IOC.They have also argued that in cultures where the use of drugs isprevalent for overcoming illness, promoting rehabilitation and pro-viding normality, it is inconsistent to argue against the use of drugsfor enhancing athletic performance.
See also :drug testing, ethics
Further reading : Beamish and Ritchie (2005), Brown (1980), Burke and
Roberts (1997), Dimeo (2006), Lavin (1987), Schneider and Butcher (1993–
1994), Simon (1991), Waddington (2005)
DRUG TESTING
Drug testing at an international level was ﬁrst employed at the 1968
Winter Olympics in response to advances in sports medicine and
training around the world. There were speciﬁc concerns amongst
Western nations that Eastern Bloc countries such as East Germanyand the USSR were using pharmaceutical expertise to gain an unfair
advantage in sports. Over the next twenty years, a variety of athletes
were disqualiﬁed at the Olympics. However, it was not until the1988 disqualiﬁcation of Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson, following adrug test which showed evidence of use of the banned anabolic
steroid Stanzanol, that those outside sport joined the discussion, and
widespread debate about drugs and drug testing occurred.
For the Olympic movement, drug testing became a means of pro-
moting an image of true sport, and was used to promote a psychol-
ogy of fear where potential drug use among Olympic athletes was
concerned. Fear psychology has been aided by the impact of thewidely publicised side effects of drugs on health .
The sports that have been most plagued by drugs, and thus have
been in the vanguard of drug testing, are cycling and weightlifting.
The death of British cyclist T ommy Simpson ﬁrst alerted the sportingpublic to the issue of drug use, and helped foster the long-standingdebate over issues of privacy and personal freedom on the one hand,DRUG TESTING
62