DANCE
Dance is a form of human movement that has long been used to
convey and express emotion, physicality, stories and other elements of
the human condition. Dance takes many forms. In addition to tradi-
tional forms of dance (folk dancing) and regionally or ethnically spe-ciﬁc forms (Irish dancing, classical Indian dancing), there are formswhich are used commonly in public performance (ballet and moderndance) and those for competition (ballroom dancing or swing dance).
All forms of dance can be physically exerting, and all are connected
with and promoted as pursuits that will increase levels of physical
activity, sociability and well-being. Dance has long been embraced by
educators as a valuable tool for teaching children forms of movement.
In Britain dance is part of the National Curriculum and is used as a
means of expressing and communicating ideas and feelings. It is alsostudied as a way of introducing students to various cultures and
differences between societies.
Competitive dancing has become increasingly popular in recent
years due to its prominence on television through shows such as‘Strictly Come Dancing’. In the United States, dance is a key activity
within High Schools, and organisations such as the American Dance
Awards organise national competitions with cash prizes in the formof scholarships.
DECOLONISATION
The process of decolonisation followed the withdrawal of imperial
nations from those nations that they had colonised. The major formal
period of decolonisation was after the Second World War, but othernations had freed themselves from their imperial powers before then.Once the imperial power had departed, those nations that had pre-viously been colonised had to ﬁnd their own way in the world, andestablish their own identity. This process involved deciding on aspectsof liturgy such as the national ﬂag and anthem, establishing diplo-matic relationships with other countries, and joining, where applic-
able, international bodies such as the United Nations. Sport became
part of this process. Nations such as India and those that constitutedthe West Indies were faced with a dilemma. As part of the process ofcolonisation , they had begun to play imperial games such as cricket,
and had been accepted as formal test-playing teams. As free nations,should they continue to play these colonial sports that were organisedDECOLONISATION
55