scale of growth within the sports market on a global scale has
appeared unstoppable. The costs of television rights for sportingevents of all kinds have soared, sports clubs have been successfullyﬂoated on the stock market, and major events such as the football
World Cup ﬁnals and the Olympics grow ever bigger and costlier.
Whether sport can continue with its incredible level of successremains to be seen. The Athens Olympics of 2004 were not assuccessful as those held in Sydney in 2000. Mega events such as theOlympic Games and the football World Cup are fraught withplanning and ﬁnancial risks. It remains to be seen whether SouthAfrica will be able to deliver the World Cup ﬁnals to the high stan-dards of those set by Germany in 2006, and whether London will get
everything ready in time for the Olympics of 2012. Other questions
also continue to be asked of the sports industry. Will the viewersbegin to desert televised football in large numbers? Will Nikecontinue to sign multi-million pound deals with sports stars to pro-mote its products? All the answers to these questions lie in the future.They are, however, indicative of the importance of sport within theglobal society, and illustrative of its social, economic and politicalimportance.
Sport, it can be argued, is everywhere. From children kicking or
throwing a ball on any patch of ground, to the stars of the footballpitch or basketball court, sport captivates us all. Its global presence isundeniable. We cannot turn on our television sets without seeingsport. General and dedicated radio stations keep us constantly abreastof the latest sports news, while the ever-growing number of dailysporting newspaper supplements and specialist magazines inform us ofevery minutia of sporting activity. The internet has been embraced by
sports clubs and organisations, as well as fans across the world, as
another medium through which sport can be promoted, discussedand enjoyed. In all forms of sponsorship and advertising, the sportsstar is dominant. There is not a product that is not connected toeither individual sports players or an event. From Michael Jordan andTiger Woods’ embrace of Nike, through to the N-Power Ashes seriesin test cricket, companies believe that the sponsorship of sport willbring them much needed publicity, raise their proﬁle and increase
their sales. But big sponsors only remain with a sports star while they
are successful. After his performance in the 2005 Ashes series againstAustralia, English cricketer Andrew Flintoff signed deals with Bar-clays, Red Bull, V olkswagen, and the Thwaites brewery, amongstothers. If he continues to be the hero in the English side and resultsgo their way, then the interest of sponsors in him will remain high.INTRODUCTION
vii