matters such as the taking of recreational drugs, the making of
offensive gestures and the wearing of inappropriate clothing out ofthe courts. Nevertheless, to allow the sports authorities such unfet-tered power necessitates that they act consistently, in good faith, and
with fair procedures. One of the main criticisms is that some autho-
rities use their discretion to ignore incidents on which they do notwish to receive publicity.
DRILL SERGEANTS
The ﬁrst physical education teachers were drill sergeants, who began
to appear in schools following amendments in 1875 to the Forster
Education Act of 1870 which allowed payments to be made to themby School Boards. They instructed the pupils in marching, postureexercises and dummy arms drill, with the prime aim of instillingdiscipline but with the implicit intent to improve the ﬁtness of armyrecruits. Unfortunately, many of these ex-soldiers were incapable ofdifferentiating between adult military personnel and state school
pupils. The public schools , however, tended to employ a better class
of drill instructor, often ex-instructors from the Aldershot militaryschool, who were able to teach other skills such as fencing andgymnastics. Drill sergeants died away as training colleges began tosupply qualiﬁed personnel.
DRUGS
The issue of drugs in sport has centred on a number of issuesincluding fairness, athletes’ rights, dehumanisation and health and
safety concerns. All of these continue to surround sport at the
highest levels, such as in Olympic competition, but are also becomingof increasing concern at lower levels and amongst younger athletes, asthey see the potential for gaining the wealth, status and recognition ofhighly successful athletes. If the use of particular drugs can enhanceperformance through building muscle, increasing oxygen uptake or
limiting pain, athletes in search of aids to traditional training techni-
ques only have to look to such drugs for assistance.
The list of banned substances issued by the International Olym-
pic Committee (IOC) continues to grow as pharmacological
experts discover new performance-enhancing compounds. The IOCand similar sporting bodies are involved in a drug war, which, despiteDRUGS
61