DISCRIMINATION
Discrimination is the differentiation between groups or individuals
on the basis of race, gender, age, sexual orientation or other factors.
Often this is due to prejudice, where an unfavourable and often
intolerant attitude is taken against others on the basis of inadequateknowledge. In turn this often stems from the stereotyping of parti-cular groups so that all members of it are identiﬁed as having similartraits. Some forms of discrimination are illegal, but not all. Unlawfuldiscrimination in sport covers such matters as means of recruitment,terms of employment, opportunities for training and promotion, andaccess to beneﬁts and services. Discrimination in sport on the
grounds of a person’s gender or ethnic origin is illegal under the Sex
Discrimination and Race Relations Acts. Indeed, women have suc-
cessfully challenged sports bodies in the courts over their reluctanceto grant them licences to train racehorses and to ﬁght as professional
boxers. However, currently the Disability Discrimination Act is notfully applicable to participatory sport because of the physical skillsrequired, though its provisions do apply to other forms of employ-ment offered by a sports club or association. However, private sports
clubs can operate discriminatory policies. The Royal and Ancient
Golf Club of St Andrews, the ruling body in golf, is still a men-onlyorganisation. Signiﬁcantly, the Sex Discrimination and Race Rela-tions Acts technically also render it illegal to adopt a policy of positive
discrimination so as to deliberately employ more females or ethnic
minorities at the expense of males or other racial groups; though thishas not yet been challenged within sport.
See also :afﬁrmative action, racism
Further reading : McArdle (1999)
DISREPUTE
‘Bringing the game into disrepute’ is a clause in their regulations that
sports authorities invoke to maintain acceptable behaviour by parti-
cipants in their sport, be they players, ofﬁcials or administrators. Awell drafted disrepute provision gives governing bodies wide latitudeto discipline participants, but also a wide margin of discretion as towhen to take action. An acceptance by all those involved in the sportof the right of the ruling body to enforce discipline in this way keepsDISCRIMINATION
60