by age and gender variations. Similarly, of course, so can the demand
for particular sports: netball and rugby tend to have signiﬁcant genderdifferences both in playing and watching, and the same applies to thegenerally different ages of athletes and bowls players. Sports suppliers
also take the distribution of the population into account, as a popu-
lace concentrated into urban areas is likely to produce a greater effectivedemand than one spread sparsely over the countryside.
DIFFERENTIATION
The term differentiation refers to the ways in which groups separate
themselves from each other by appearing or behaving differently. The
aim of differentiation is to make either the group or the individualdistinct. This may work with football supporters in the ways that theydress and behave. For example, Scottish football supporters areknown for the kilt wearing, carnivalesque behaviour and goodhumour. This differentiates them from other groups, and allows themto stand out as uniquely Scottish.
More widely differentiation can be used to measure the ways in
which different social groups access and consume sport. Recentlyissues concerning social differentiation and social inequality in sporthave received a great deal of attention in the sociology of sport.Many writers have argued that the opportunity to participate activelyin sport is stratiﬁed according to sociocultural characteristics. Thusthere is a differentiation amongst those who participate in certainsports because of factors such as class, gender or race. For example,golf clubs would be seen largely as the preserve of the white, sub-
urban middle classes, while boxing clubs would have a multiracial
membership of urban working class males. Each sport will mirrorsocietal divisions and be differentiated precisely because sport, andparticipation in it, reﬂects the sociological basis of the population.Differentiation is therefore a useful tool for understanding debatesrelating to identity and participation issues in sport.
Further reading : Giulianotti (2005), Scheerder et al. (2005)
DIFFUSION
One of the major issues in both sports history andgeography has
been the movement of different sports and games across the globe.DIFFUSION
57