This process, known as diffusion, helps explain how sports spread
throughout the world. It can be used to analyse the origins of modern
sport, as well as illustrating the distribution of sport through either
imperialism orglobalisation . The process of diffusion explains
how the transformation was made between localised traditional
sports , and eventually the globalised modern sports organisations
such as the International Olympic Committee or the marketing
power of the National Basketball Association (NBA). It has been
argued that the process of diffusion can be best illustrated by examiningpre-industrial sport. Gillmeister argued that the origin of many batand ball games, especially tennis, could be traced back to the Picar-dian game of cache. Throughout Europe there were a host of games
similar to cache, albeit ones with adapted local rules and with speciﬁc
regional names. Cache therefore, while being understood at one levelas an antecedent of modern tennis, is also a prime example of theprocess of diffusion. The game, despite changing form as it travelledacross Europe so that local variants dominated, has clear origins.Guttmann has also explored the process of diffusion in the context ofimperial powers and the more recent advent of a sporting globalisa-tion. The process of diffusion has, it can be argued, led to the
blunting of many national distinctions in sport, and has hastened the
development of a global system of international competition andorganisation.
Further reading : Bale (1989), Gillmeister (1981), Guttmann (1994), Maguire
(2000)
DISABILITY SPORT
While advances in medicine, the development of prostheses, and the
need to ﬁnd activities appropriate to the needs of disabled soldiers
after the First World War created limited impetus for sport for thedisabled, it was the prevalence of service-connected injuries such asparaplegia and amputation that led more directly to the developmentofdisability sports . Following the Second World War, sports and
recreation were increasingly recognised as being signiﬁcant compo-nents of therapy and rehabilitation for disabled servicemen. The shiftin terminology from ‘sport for the disabled’ to ‘disability sport’ is
indicative of changing social views of those with disabilities from
being lesser beings to being equal – if different – beings performingin separate events. This drive for equality has led some disabilityDISABILITY SPORT
58