and pure sport and fair play on the other. Sport philosophers con-
tinue to debate these issues, and the Olympic movement continues totry to improve its testing procedures to keep pace with the pharma-cological advances in sport performance enhancement.
Drug testing is beset with legal problems regarding civil liberties
and procedural disputes, economic problems concerning the costs ofadministration and enforcement, and political problems of corruptionand inconsistency by the sports authorities in many countries.
See also :drugs
Further reading : Simon (1991), Williams (1998), Y esalis (2000)
DUTY OF CARE
Participants in competitive sport owe a duty to each other and to
spectators and ofﬁcials to take all reasonable care not to cause injuryor distress. Similarly, coaches both of children and adults have a dutyof care not to risk injuring their charges by asking them to perform
when unﬁt or not competent. Although occasionally it has been held
that higher-level players and highly qualiﬁed coaches have a higherduty of care than lesser ones, mainly it has been the standard ofordinary reasonable sportspersons that has been used in legal deci-sions. Also taken into account are the particular circumstances of theincident and the playing culture of the sport concerned. In the recentcase of Smolden vs. Whitworth , a referee was held liable for the
paralysis of a player injured when a scrum collapsed, something that
had already occurred twenty times in the match without the match
ofﬁcial taking action to prevent it re-occurring.
See also :law
ECONOMIC IMPACT STATEMENTS
Economists often use economic impact statements to analyse the
potential effects of a development on a variety of activities. It is
similar to cost-beneﬁt analysis , but need not take a full overall
approach and can focus on speciﬁc aspects. Hence, for example,the building of a new sports stadium or even an Olympic Games bidcan be looked at in terms of economic regeneration of an area, theECONOMIC IMPACT STATEMENTS
63