short- and longer-term employment demands, the resultant trafﬁc
and parking issues, or of the inward investment that might bestimulated.
ECONOMIC RENT
In a free market economy, workers with special or scarce skills canexpect to earn above average wages. This additional amount istermed an economic rent. In sport the application of salary caps and
maximum wages has often prevented professional sportspersons
from earning their full economic rent.
ECONOMICS
Unless they have a major ﬁnancial patron who will bail them out of
any economic difﬁculties, sports clubs have to balance the books.
Hence like any other business they must work within a budget con-straint and hire, train and retain labour, market their product, and
invest in production facilities. However, whereas in a conventional
business an objective might well be to dominate the market andbecome a monopolist who can set higher prices and make largerproﬁts than a company operating in a more competitive environ-ment, this cannot occur in sport. There is no game without a com-petitor. Chelsea versus Chelsea Reserves eventually would pall evenfor diehard fans of the Blues; the economics of sport is peculiar to theextent that rival producers (or teams) must combine together to
produce a saleable product (individual matches). Without coopera-
tion between the member clubs of a league, it would not be possiblefor matches to be played. The product (matches) is therefore pro-duced cooperatively. The same argument can be applied to individualsports: there is no proﬁt in being heavyweight champion of the worldif there is no challenger. Some sports are essentially non-viable unlessparticipants regard their activity as being part of their consumption
pattern. Entrepreneurs do not build factories for fun, but the same is
not true of leisure activities where enormous sums can be spent with
little ﬁnancial return. A prime example is game preservation forshooting, which makes the cost of each bird killed far higher than theprice in the butcher’s shop. Similarly the ownership of a racehorse inmany cases is an amalgam of consumption andinvestment , with
the former more to the fore.ECONOMIC RENT
64