such as Captain Matthew Webb, who ﬁrst accomplished the feat in
1875, attempted to close the gap.
In recent years, however, perhaps as part of the move towards nature
and a reaction against the perceived softness of civilisation, sportspersons
have again begun to challenge both themselves and the elements.
Although these have included long-distance horse-back riding involvingtravel over varying terrain and in all weathers, most have involvedpersons solely challenging themselves mentally and physically. A dis-tinction could be drawn between those endurance sports which haveemerged out of conventional sports such as the multi-sport triathlon basedon running, swimming and cycling and now an Olympic event, andthose which are essentially televised circus-style events such as the world’s
strongest man, where men test their l ifting, holding, and carrying powers
to the limit. Some of these endurance events merge into extreme sports .
See also :adventure sports
ENERGY
Energy is the capacity to do work, and is often measured in terms of
oxygen consumption. Since sport and physical activity are energeticevents, sport scientists have sought to understand what energy is,what the signiﬁcant sources of energy are, and then how the bodyuses those sources of energy during speciﬁc types of physical activity.
These studies are based on the laws of bioenergetics, and are under-pinned by two very signiﬁcant limitations. The ﬁrst is that energy is
not created but rather is acquired in the form of food, etc., and is
converted through the processes of energy metabolism into another
form of energy. The second is that the conversion process itself is not
a particularly efﬁcient system and that much of the energy released isreleased as heat. Athletic activities are often classiﬁed as being typicalof one of three groups: activities typiﬁed by the need for power,speed or endurance. In the Olympic Games we see examples of
each type in weightlifting, the 100 metre sprint and the marathon,respectively. Skeletal muscle is provided with energy for these three
different types of activity by three different energy systems: the ATP -
PC system; the lactic acid system; and the oxygen system.
See also :energy metabolism, energy systems
Further reading : Brooks et al. (1996), Fox et al. (1987), Howley and Franks (1997)ENERGY
67