emotional states in competitive sports. Much more work needs to be
done on Emotion in sport but research in neuroscience and physicalactivity holds great potential in this area.
Further reading : Hanin (2000), Lavallee et al. (2004)
ENDORSEMENT
Lying somewhere between sponsorship andadvertising , endorsement
implies that a team or player recommends the use of a particular product.Whether the public really believe that sporting success can be associated
with, and derived from, buying the advertised product is a moot point.
Further reading : Hudson (2000)
ENDURANCE SPORTS
Time and energy are both scarce resources. Endurance sports test anathlete’s stamina against the clock. One of the earliest endurance sports
involved long-distance athletic feats done for wagers. Famous pedes-trians (as they were known) included Foster Powell, who undertooklong walks of several days duration; Lieutenant Fairman of the RoyalLancashire Militia, who went sixty miles in 13 hours 33 minutes in1804; and Captain Barclay, who in 1809 gained fame for winning achallenge to run a thousand miles in a thousand hours. Otherendurance sportsmen were the bare-knuckled pugilists who fought to
exhaustion, ﬁghts often lasting several hours. A round ended only
when one combatant was put to the ﬂoor; he then had half a minute’srespite before placing his toe on a line scratched across the centre ofthe ring and resuming battle. Not until one ﬁghter failed ‘to come upto scratch’ was a result declared: there were no wins on points in thosedays, just the objective test of an inability to continue.
As sports became codiﬁed and urbanisation demanded set times for
sporting events, such endurance sports became less popular. Only the
marathon, run over 26 miles and 385 yards, received the Olympic
accolade. In Europe particularly, advantage was taken of new tech-
nology to inaugurate the long-distance cycle race taking several days
to complete. In Britain such mass-start road racing was banned,
though time trials were allowed. In many sporting matters, Britainremained isolated from the continent, though channel swimmersENDORSEMENT
66