danger to spectators and athletes and the building of all-weather
tracks to allow events to proceed.
See also :technology
ENVIRONMENT
With the growth of green politics, and increased concerns over the
relationship between humankind and the environment, the world ofsport has come under pressure to pursue positive policies with respectto the natural world. The central problem has been reconciling the
positive beneﬁts that sport and exercise have on the human body, with
the often negative impact of sport on the environment. Motor racingis seen as an environmentally challenging sport. While debates withinthe context of transport policy look towards a reduction of emissionsfrom the combustion engine, motor racing depends on high-poweredand high-consumption vehicles, sponsored by multinational petro-chemical companies, racing solely for the pleasure of spectators. Formany people the activity is therefore a symbol of an environmentally
unethical sport. Similarly, there are constant questions asked about
the rapid spread of golf courses into the green belts that encircle the
major cities of the W estern world. While many people, especially golfers,
consider a well manicured course a thing of beauty, it is evident thatthe development of a new golf club has an environmental cost. Part ofthe natural landscape is lost, as hills, lakes, greens, fairways and bunkersare built. Huge amounts of chemical fertiliser are put into the soil todevelop, and then maintain the course to the highest standards. Envir-
onmental concerns have also been expressed about the modiﬁcations
to mountain terrain in the construction of a ski piste, the effect ofwindsurﬁng, power boating and jet skiing on the ecosystem of theoceans, and the damage to hills and peaks from mountain bikers.
It is not solely sporting pursuits that have an impact on the environ-
ment. Major spectator sports and the associated stadia create problemsconcerning transport networks, the waste associated with crowdconsumption and noise pollution. More recently the planners of
stadia for major events, most notably the Homebush site of the 2000
Olympics, have adapted to environmental concerns. ‘Greeness’ hasnow to be part of Olympic bids. The development of the Sydney2000 facilities were used as a way of improving the city’s transportnetwork, of promoting urban renewal, and developing, in the case ofthe athletes’ village, environmentally friendly houses.ENVIRONMENT
69