long period of time closely involved with the culture they are
studying. This time period may vary from a matter of months to anumber of years. During this time, they typically use a variety oftechniques and methods, although two major approaches used
involve interviewing and participant observation. In using these
techniques, the sports ethnographer is attempting to capture themeanings used and made by members of the culture to describe itssporting and physical activity. Interviews involve the direct question-ing of members of the culture being studied in order to hear abouttheir sports and physical activities from an insider’s (-emic) perspec-tive. As a means of complementing this approach and the informationgleaned, ethnographers often employ participant observation tech-
niques, whereby they participate in on-going events of the culture as
well as observe what is going on. As such, they adopt an outsider’s(-etic) perspective and orientation. In either case they are searchingfor the meanings and functions of a culture’s sporting and physicalactivities.
Further reading : Harris and Park (1983), Hughson (2001), Marsh (1983)
ETIQUETTE
Many sports have unwritten rules which inﬂuence the conduct andbehaviour of participants. Some of these are to do with fair play or
sportsmanship; others are to do with etiquette and deal with cus-tomary expectations as to how the game should be played. In golf,however, there is an etiquette section within the published rules that,
although unenforceable in terms of penalties, makes it very clear
what sort of behaviour will be required. In the professional gameﬁnes are exacted for breaches of etiquette, particularly equipmentabuse.
EXERCISE
A leisure-time physical activity that people engage in for the purposeof developing physical activity, exercise is ‘planned, structured, repe-
titive bodily movements that someone engages in for the purpose ofimproving or maintaining physical ﬁtness or health.’ (Buckworth andDishman 2002: 28) There is now a great deal of research evidence toshow that regular exercise is associated with a range of physical andEXERCISE
73