of ethnic identities. Colonial sports and games, such as cricket, which
originally sought to promote a British or English concept of identityand value, were used by Australians, Indians, South Africans and WestIndians, among others, to promote a unique national form of ethni-
city which was in opposition (in sporting terms at least) to the colo-
nial identity. For migrant groups, sport has been essential inmaintaining a sense of ethnicity. Many migrants have chosen to playthe sports of the host nation as a method of assimilation, yet havedone so organised into their own ethnic teams. Equally, others havechosen to ignore the games of their hosts, and cement their ethnicidentity by playing games from ‘home’. This has been a commonprocess amongst British Asians, who have successfully kept games
such as kabbadi alive in new surroundings.
Especially important in recent debates surrounding the role of
ethnicity within sport, have been the identities of professional ath-
letes. Tiger Woods, for example, who has a high media proﬁle, haschosen to side-step the question of identity by stating that he is‘Calbanasian’. He has effectively argued that he is a product of somany identities and cultures that his own ethnicity is irrelevant. Theonly important issue is his playing ability and his success on the golf
course. Such refusal to engage with the question of ethnic identity is
in marked contrast to the experience of disgraced 100 metre cham-pion Ben Johnson. In his moment of victory, Johnson was embracedby his national press as the greatest living Canadian. When his drugtaking was discovered and he was stripped of his medal, the samepress denounced Johnson as a Jamaican immigrant. Sport, because ofits high proﬁle, allows for the ready labelling of all involved in ethnicterms. Studies of ethnicity in sport have demonstrated how mobile
and complex such identities are.
See also :nationalism, racism, sociology
Further reading : Cronin and Mayall (1998), Eisen and Wiggins (1994), Har-
greaves (1986), James (1963), MacClancy (1996), Mangan and Ritchie
(2005).
ETHNOGRAPHY
The goal of ethnography is ‘to communicate understandings about a
culture which are held by members of the culture themselves’.(Harris and Park 1983: 10) Ethnographers typically spend a relativelyETHNOGRAPHY
72