However, if stars like Flintoff suffer long term injury or lose form, the
sponsors will desert them for the next big thing.
Sport has a great cultural resonance. It is important in people’s
daily lives, and serves to bring people together. For many, sport is
central to their sense of identity. It provides them with a focus for
their lives, a group of friends with a common interest, and a series ofgames and events around which they can organise and centre theirlife. Sport is centrally important as an activity that promotes physicalhealth and well-being, and is embraced as such by education, welfareand medical systems across the world. Physical and sporting activity,at whatever age, is to be applauded for improving health and socia-bility, as well as providing many people with an outlet for their
competitive streak. Sport then, has a myriad of different functions.
From the school child throwing their ﬁrst ball as part of an educa-tional process, through to the multi-million dollar pitcher on a majorleague baseball team, sport is an important focus for, and a centralpart of, the society in which we live.
Why sports studies and physical education?
The argument of what actually constitutes a sport is one that will keep
any discussion group, whether in a classroom or over dinner, talkingfor hours. The argument is not one which is central here. We havetaken a broad approach to the subject of what constitutes sports studiesand physical education, and are more concerned with an area of activitythat has a multitude of different forms, styles and inﬂuences across theglobe. The approach taken here is one which, along with the majorityof academic studies, is centred on an understanding of sport and
physical education within a predominantly Western context. This is not
to deny that sport has a great importance within non-Western socie-ties, but a recognition that the majority of previous work has focusedon Western sports, organisations and styles of play. The sports of theWestern world, along with their sports stars, the products that theymarket, and the media that project them to the wider world, dom-inate the global sporting agenda. The work included in the text hassought to avoid an over-emphasis on elite forms of sporting practice,
and to approach physical education and sports studies through an
appreciation of activity at a variety of levels. However, one has to
recognise that many of the dominant themes in contemporary sport,such as globalisation, can best be illustrated by reference to an eliteperformer, such as Ronaldo in football. As a result, professional orelite sport provides the majority of illustrations used in the text.INTRODUCTION
viii