become too predictable then, it is argued, aggregate attendances will
fall and the competition may lose its viability. Static equality ofcompetition refers to a single competitive season, whereas dynamicequality of competition considers several seasons. It is the latter on
which economists have based their arguments.
See also :economics
Further reading : Borland and McDonald (2003), Symanski (2003)
ETHICS
Sports ethics is the study of right and wrong, good or bad. It involves
thinking about the moral issues that occur in sport. Generally it takesthree forms. It can be descriptive (outlining what the moral issue is),normative (dealing with how moral decisions should be made), ormeta-ethical (looking at how such decisions are made). Increasingly,sports philosophers are becoming more concerned with appliedrather than theoretical sports ethics. This has focused on the personal
morality of individuals in sport, and on professional conduct within
sports organisations.
Further reading : Loland (2005), McNamee and Parry (1998), Stoll (1996)
ETHNICITY
Ethnicity is a term that is commonly used by historians, sociologists
and social scientists. It is used to describe those elements that lead tothe identiﬁcation of any given group, and has increasingly come toreplace the idea of race as a method of sub-dividing human groups.Sport, it has been argued by many commentators supporting theconcept of functionalism , has been used by many ethnic groups as a
way of integrating and assimilating with the dominant population.
Those supportive of conﬂict theory argue that sport has been used
as a method of creating a homogeneous identity which largely ignoresethnicity so that existing power structures remain intact. Some of themost useful engagement with the concept of ethnicity has comethrough those advocating types of critical theory , who see sporting
forms as a venue for the promotion of group and individual pride inseparate ethnicities. Sport clearly aids the production and promotionETHNICITY
71