FACTORS OF PRODUCTION
Economists use land, labour and capital as shorthand terminology for
the various economic resources – or factors of production – that are
brought together to produce output. Where sporting production is
concerned, land includes the fabric of the sports ground as well as thearea on which it is situated. Labour obviously includes the partici-pants themselves, but also the backroom staff and those workers whomanufacture the match equipment, tailor the team outﬁts and printthe programmes and tickets. Capital in British sport is often a mix-ture of public and private funds. The motivation of investors canencompass those seeking a speculative gain, others looking for a safe
rate of return, and fans simply supporting their team in another way.
See also :supply
FAIR PLAY
The concept of fair play is enshrined in the European Charter ofSport for All as involving respect and consideration for opponents
and partners, and always playing in the right spirit. In a recentdiscussion, Loland asked whether fair play was a historical ana-chronism or a topical ideal. The question is an important onebecause the fair play ideal in modern sport is built on nineteenth-century class interests where upholding the ideal was seen asdepending upon sport being played in a certain manner and with acertain attitude. T o follow the ideal meant playing by the rules as
much in spirit as in letter. Fair play’s ‘ideal-type’ was the amateur
fostered in the public schools and by the Corinthians . Both fair
play and the amateur were very much upper-middle-class ideals inwhich the gentlemanly virtues and the spirit of muscular Chris-
tianity were pervasive.
More recently, fair play has come to mean equal starting conditions
and equal chances of winning, although in its most general sense it isstill thought of as playing according to and in the spirit of the rules.
Some philosophers have drawn a distinction between formal and
informal fair play. Formal fair play is concerned with the letter of the
rules, and informal with the spirit. This distinction between formaland informal fair play is important because it signiﬁes the importanceof a central issue in discussions of fair play – the ‘logical incom-patibility thesis’ (Lehman 1981). Proponents of this thesis hold that ifFACTORS OF PRODUCTION
76