Sports studies and physical education have become increasingly
important within the curriculum at both school, college and uni-
versity level. Education has recognised that sport is not simply a humanactivity that has no importance within society. It is an activity that is
worthy of study, from a variety of disciplinary approaches, so that the
impact and importance of sport can be properly assessed and understood.This book has been constructed so that all the major disciplinary areasthat constitute sports studies and physical education are included.That said, there are undoubtedly topics and concepts that have beenexcluded. Such exclusions are not the product of oversight, but theresult of boundaries that had to be set at the outset of the project. Forthis new edition of the book some of the broader organisational
themes that appeared in the ﬁrst edition have been dropped in favour
of a greater focus on sports science and physical education concepts.Also included are some general concepts, such as alcohol which,while not directly linked to sport, does impinge on the lives of ath-letes and has been a key issue in the area of sponsorship.
Why this guide?
The economic and cultural importance of sport, and the growth in
popular and academic discussion of the topic, is the central justiﬁca-tion for the book. As the Key Concepts series is well established andadmired, we felt that it offered the best vehicle for an exploration ofthe terminology and major concepts that are attached to the study ofsports studies and physical education. There is, as the bibliography inthis book illustrates, a mass of literature on different aspects of sport.Much of this literature is the product of academic endeavour, and was
aimed primarily at the peer group of the authors. Such work has
often been written using complex specialist terminology, or else is placed in the context of a variety of often unfamiliar theoreticalapproaches. Even those general texts, which seek to introduce thestudent or reader to a particular disciplinary approach, often hidetheir deﬁnitions of the key concepts within the narrative, so that theyremain unclear. As a result, many readers ﬁnd it difﬁcult to grasp thecentral purpose or deﬁnition of the different terms, concepts or ideas.
This volume seeks, as with the others in this series, to provide, in a
readable and accessible form, a comprehensive guide to the key terms
and concepts present in the broad body of writing within sports studiesand physical education.
As the study of sports and physical education embraces so many
different disciplinary approaches, a deﬁnition of the key concepts isINTRODUCTION
ix