pandering to male constructions of femininity by trading on her
looks, rather than proving herself as a sportswoman.
See also :feminism, gender
FEMINISM
Sport has most often been associated with men. This is due, in large
part to the origins of sport in the public schools of Victorian Britain,
and the overriding associated ideologies of muscular Christianity
and gentlemanly conduct. Modern sport in the nineteenth century
was predominantly organised and played by men. In Victorian society
women were conceived of as the weaker sex, whose primary func-tion was the production of healthy children. As such women had noplace in the sporting arena. Sports that women did play in the nine-teenth century were largely those that were chosen for gentility, suchas tennis or golf. In the twentieth century the situation began tochange. In general terms the lot of women improved in the wake ofthe First World War, when they had proved themselves invaluable to
the war effort. In 1918 the ﬁrst women were given the vote in Brit-
ain, and by 1928 this had been extended to all women over twenty-
eight. Women began to take part in more sports, and organisations
such as the Olympics were instrumental in encouraging women’ssport as they did not seek to exclude them. Even into the 1930s,bodies such as the Football Association argued against women’s par-ticipation in the game because of the potential damage that it mightdo to their health. The most popular sporting pursuits for women in
the inter-war years were those that were built around different forms
of gymnastics, such as the Women’s League of Health and Beauty.
From the 1960s, and with the advance of a general feminist
movement, more women became involved in sport and began cam-
paigning for greater levels of access and inclusion. There has alwaysbeen one dichotomy at the heart of the relationship between femin-ism and sport. Those women’s sports that have been successful ingaining access to the media have been those which have been mar-
keted because of the sexuality of the competitors. In this, it is sports
such as women’s tennis, ice skating and beach volleyball that can beseen to have captured the imagination. At the heart of the matter isthe question of whether someone like Anna Kournikova is celebratedbecause of her sporting ability or her photogenic good looks. Whyhas it been that feminine sports have largely succeeded in gainingFEMINISM
80