FATIGUE
The term fatigue is generally used to describe overall feelings of
tiredness and the inability to continue to perform at a particular level.
Generally deﬁned as an inability to maintain a power output or force
during repeated muscle contractions, fatigue is thought to have fourunderlying causes and can be manifested in associated sites. Thesesites include: the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral sys-tems associated with neural, mechanical and energetic events such asthe accumulation of metabolic by-products, the failure of the muscleﬁbre’s contractile mechanisms and depleted or unbalanced energysystems. While fatigue differs for aerobic and anaerobic processes
since such activities require different amounts of energy supplied in
different ways, fatigue can also be inﬂuenced by environmental con-
ditions such as altitude, heat and humidity, and diet. While appro-priate training and preparation are important in limiting and even
overcoming fatigue, it should be noted that fatigue has a protectivefunction as well as a limiting effect with regard to exercise and sport.
See also :central nervous system
Further reading : Powers and Howley (2004)
FEEDBACK
For researchers in motor learning and control, the old adage ‘practicemakes perfect’ is incomplete. Rather, it is practice with appropriate
feedback that ‘makes perfect’, since feedback plays the important roles
of motivating, regulating and ultimately reinforcing learning andbehaviour. Feedback can come both from within the system (as inanyclosed-loop system) or from outside the system ( open-loop
system).
We tend to use visual feedback as our most important source. Thus
when golfers hit a ball, they are more likely to correct their swing onthe basis of the fact that they saw where the ball landed (visual feed-
back) than that they felt (kinesthetic feedback) that they swung the
club ‘outside-in’. However, both of these sources of feedback are
important and are examples of one important type of feedbackknown as sensory feedback. A second and equally important formof feedback is external feedback. This is feedback gleaned perhapsfrom another person, typically a teacher or coach, who observes usFATIGUE
78