entry to the mainstream, whereas less glamorous women’s sports such
as football or rugby have struggled?
Feminism, as a political movement within sport, still has a long
way to travel. The majority of sports administrators remain men, and
the bulk of prize money in any given tournament is preserved for the
male competition. At the centre of the debate is the issue of thebody: should the female sporting body be made masculine tocompete, or be kept beautiful to preserve femininity ?
See also :discrimination, femininity, gender
Further reading : Fletcher (1984), Hargreaves (1994)
FIELD SPORTS DEBATE
The ﬁeld sports debate, which has centred to a signiﬁcant degree on
the sport of hunting, has focused on two issues: animal rights and
ecocentrism. Those who support animal rights argue that animals
deserve the same moral concern as humans and thus should not be
hunted for sport. This argument is buttressed by the idea that, in
hunting animals hunters are guilty of speciesism – a form ofinequality considered a parallel to racism and sexism. In its mostfundamental form, then, the animal rights argument involves animalliberation, and those holding this view condemn ﬁeld sports on thegrounds that treating animals as objects for the sporting amusementof humans is morally repugnant. Animals, they argue, not onlydeserve to be treated humanely (as the equals of humans) but also
should never be used as a sporting resource. For those in favour of
ﬁeld sports, animals do not command the same moral standing ashumans, and those classiﬁed as vermin – such as foxes and rats –certainly do not. Thus in answering the animal liberationists, ﬁeldsports proponents have suggested that killing game, and particularlykilling vermin such as foxes, is not a moral issue at all. Rather theyhave argued that it is amoral in that the desire to hunt is the modernvestige of an evolutionary trait: that of supporting human existence.
Ecocentrists take a rather different view, suggesting that the mor-
ality of ﬁeld sports, and particularly fox hunting, is ultimately afunction of the needs of the natural environment. As such, the issueof the moral standing of animals is not something that is granted byhumans, but rather is derived from and dependent on the greatergood of the global ecosystem of which we are all a part. Only if itFIELD SPORTS DEBATE
81