relied on external funding to keep them aﬂoat. These have inclu-
ded donations from fans, patronage from the more afﬂuent, sub-
sidies from local and national government, and, increasingly,
sponsorship .
FITNESS
Scientists view ﬁtness as being speciﬁc, and thus ask the question
‘ﬁtness for what?’ They contend that one can be ﬁt for some activ-ities and not for others. Fitness, like the training that develops it, isspeciﬁc. However, most experts agree that there are two general
categories of physical ﬁtness: health-related physical ﬁtness and
motor-performance physical ﬁtness.
Health-related physical ﬁtness is generally assumed to be ﬁtness
related to some aspect of health characteristics and behaviours, and is
concerned with the quality of function of the fundamental organsystems that constitute human physiology, and most particularly themuscular, nervous, cardiovascular and respiratory systems. Thusmeasures of health-related ﬁtness include strength and endurance of
skeletal muscles, joint ﬂexibility, cardiovascular endurance, and body
composition. Measures of these indicators of ﬁtness used by scientists
are dependent upon the question ‘ﬁtness for what?’ Thus the health-
related ﬁtness requirements for a nine year old are signiﬁcantly dif-ferent from those of a ninety year old. Activities of daily living havebecome one source of measurement for scientists, and most deﬁni-tions of ﬁtness include, as a signiﬁcant element, the ability to performdaily tasks efﬁciently without fatigue.
Cardio-respiratory or aerobic ﬁtness is what most people think of
when the word ﬁtness is mentioned. Aerobic ﬁtness refers to thefunctional capacity of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems to enablethe skeletal muscles to expend energy and thus perform work. Since
aerobic ﬁtness is negatively correlated with such ailments as heart diseaseand hypertension, it has become an important benchmark for health-related ﬁtness. By contrast, motor-performance physical ﬁtness is deﬁnedas the ability of the neuromuscular system to perform speciﬁc tasks.
Thus, while cardio-respiratory endurance, muscular strength and
endurance, body composition and ﬂexibility are important aspects ofboth types of ﬁtness, factors such as agility, power, speed and balancebecome far more important in determining an individual’s motor-performance ﬁtness. And while training can enhance an individual’sagility, speed or balance, to an extent, these aspects of ﬁtness are moreFITNESS
83