performing a skill and provides us with information about the pro-
duction of that skill and/or of its result. Thus researchers have sug-gested that this non-sensory or ‘external’ feedback has twocomponents – feedback as knowledge of performance (KP) and
feedback as knowledge of results (KR). T eachers and coaches need
to bear in mind a number of important factors when providingfeedback to performers in the form of KP and KR. First, theymust provide appropriate amounts and types of KP that will helpdirect a performer’s attention to aspects of the performance of thetask (e.g. hitting a golf ball) which needs to be improved. Second,they must be aware of the possibility of overloading an individualwith feedback if they constantly provide KR after each performance.
Finally, coaches may use augmented feedback to help a performer.
Learning to putt by using a ball with speciﬁc markings which high-light how it is rolling, or learning to bowl ‘seam-up’ in cricket byusing a ball with two different colours either side of the seam, wouldbe examples.
Further reading : Gentile (1972), Magill (1998), Schmidt and Lee (1999),
Singer (1980)
FEMININITY
A central issue in debates relating to feminism andgender , femininity
can be deﬁned as the measure of being a woman. The application ofthis deﬁnition can be problematic. Medical debates raged at the endof the nineteenth century about whether or not sport was healthy forwomen, and these were accompanied by social concerns that theplaying of sport and games by women would undermine their femi-ninity. Sport, it was believed, was about strength and masculinity. It
was not a pursuit designed for women, and their participation would
challenge beliefs held about their gender . Women have steadily
increased their involvement in sport, and the debates connected with
femininity have not lessened. Many commentators argue that womenshould not play sports such as bodybuilding or rugby union, as theirparticipation fundamentally undermines their femininity, and makesthem appear, and behave, in a more masculine fashion. The same
arguments have been made with respect to women’s tennis. Players
such as the Williams sisters, who are heavily muscled and play a big
serving game, are often criticised as being overtly masculine . Equally,
tennis player Anna Kournikova was challenged by many feminists forFEMININITY
79