we deliberately break the rules of a game and therefore do not play
fairly, it is impossible for us to win the game. They argue that logi-cally, we are not playing the game soccer (as deﬁned by its constitu-tional rules) if we deliberately break those rules. We are in fact
playing another game altogether although it may look very much like
soccer.
Many consider this view of fair play too narrow and restrictive and
lacking the idea of the spirit of fair play. As such, informal fair play isseen as an attitude which players bring both towards the rules of thegame and, as importantly, towards their opponents. The argument ismade that if we view our opponents with esteem and respect, weshould grant them equal starting conditions (such as offered by
weight classes in boxing) and an equal chance of winning the game.
Opponents are thus viewed as partners in a shared activity rather thanobstacles to be overcome.
Fair play needs to reﬂect both the formal and informal elements,
because while each is a necessary condition for understanding fairplay, neither is a sufﬁcient condition. In essence, therefore, the idealof fair play, as promoting the importance of abiding by both the letterand the spirit of the rules, continues.
Further reading : Lehman (1981), Loland (1998), McIntosh (1979), Simon
(1991), Steenberger and Tamboer (1998)
FARTLEK
A Swedish term literally meaning ‘speed play’, fartlek was popularised
as an early means of cross-training by Swedish Olympic CoachGostra Holmer in the 1950s. Holmer was looking for a means ofovercoming boredom for his distance runners, and developed a range
of workouts involving walking, sprinting, running up and down hills,
and retrorunning. He varied the length of the work-out, the terrainover which it was run, and the pace of the activities in tailoringspeciﬁc regimens for individual athletes. In addition to its use as atraining tool for overcoming boredom and the associated problems ofover-training andburn-out – the negative aspects of training –
coaches have also used fartlek as a means of enhancing the positiveaspects of psychological training, by emphasising the ‘play’ aspect of
‘speed play’.
Further reading : Pate et al. (1984)FARTLEK
77