Terminology
Physical activity1  refers to all body movements 
produced by muscle contractions and which 
increase energy output. This includes all movements in daily life that are performed during 
working hours as well as leisure times.
Sport
2 is “all forms of physical activity that 
contribute to physical fitness, mental well-being 
and social interaction, such as play, recreation, organized or competitive sport, and indigenous 
sports and games”
Sport is a rule-oriented and organized physical 
activity, competitive or not, and practised in a controlled setting.
3
Sport is therefore a sub-set of physical activity, since it covers only certain physical activities which are regulated and codified in various ways.
Adapted sport - mainstream sports which have 
been adapted to enable people with disabilities to play, for example wheelchair basketball or sitting volleyball.
Disability sport (or para sport) – sport which is 
played exclusively by people with disabilities. This includes all adapted sports but also sports which 
have been developed specifically for people with 
disabilities, eg. goalball and boccia.
Adapted physical activity (APA) – a broader term 
encompassing adaptations in physical activity more generally, including play and physical education as well as sport.
Inclusive sport and play – sport and play 
activities in which people with and without disabilities take part together. Inclusive sport and play can take various forms, which are described in more detail in chapter 3.
1  http://www.sfp-apa.fr 
2 United Nations Office on Sport for Development and 
Peace.
3 http://www.APA-Sante.frStructure of the manual
This manual is divided into six chapters:
1. Introduction – objectives of the manual, 
target, definitions, and status of inclusive sport 
in Sri Lanka.
2. Disability and inclusion – an explanation of 
disability using two models, the medical model and the social model. The consequences of using the social model, ie. in understanding social inclusion, are explained.
3. Inclusive sport: the basics – what are the benefits of sport and play for children, including those with disabilities? What are the types and forms of inclusive sport? This chapter will explain inclusive sport using two models, the Continuum of Inclusion and the Inclusion Spectrum.
4. Making it happen – this chapter gives more practical guidance on conducting inclusive sport and games, eg. considerations for children with specific impairments, making adaptations to games and sports (using the STEP model), and conducting an inclusive play/coaching session.
5. Games and sports – examples of games and sports, and ideas on how they can be adapted to include children with disabilities.
6. Health and safety considerations – general health and safety considerations as well as impairment-specific considerations, and an 
introduction to child protection issues.
Each chapter starts with ‘key learning points’ , 
which are the main lessons to be covered in that chapter.
3