Disability sport bodies in Sri Lanka
The body with responsibility for promoting and 
coordinating disability sport in Sri Lanka is the National Paralympic Committee (the NPC). Currently the NPC is promoting fifteen para sports 
in Sri Lanka (athletics, wheelchair marathon, 
badminton, table tennis, wheelchair basketball, cycling, sitting volleyball, standing volleyball, beach volleyball, cricket (blind and deaf teams), power-lifting, shooting, wheelchair tennis, archery and swimming). The NPC organises annual Para Games which include most of these 
sports, as well as annual Army Para Games for 
soldiers with disabilities. The NPC also organises teams to compete internationally.
 In 2012, for example, the NPC took a team of 
disabled sportsmen to London for the Paralympics. 
Sri Lanka won its first ever Paralympic medal – 
Pradeep Sanjaya won a bronze in the men’s 400 
m T46 category (arm impairment). This success 
has helped to increase the profile of disability sport in Sri Lanka, including within the Ministry of Sports. Government support for disability sport has increased as a result.
In 2014 the NPC will also send a team of disabled 
athletes to the Asian Para Games in South Korea.Another national-level disability sports federation is the Sri Lanka National Volleyball Federation for Disabled. This Federation has provided coaching 
to disabled volleyball players and sent two teams 
(men and women) to an Asia Sitting Volleyball tournament in China in 2011.
Some mainstream national sports federations 
also promote disability sport. The Sri Lanka 
Tennis Association, for example, has a wheelchair tennis section. It organises national para tennis tournaments and has supported Sri Lanka para tennis players to compete internationally. Sri Lanka is ranked as one of the best countries in Asia in wheelchair tennis. 
Special Olympics is an international movement 
of sport for people with intellectual impairments. 
Special Olympics has also had a branch in Sri Lanka and has organised several coaching camps and events, and a team of Sri Lankan athletes with intellectual disabilities was sent to the Special Olympic World Summer Games in 2010 in Athens, Greece.Status of disability sport and inclusive sport in Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka national sitting volleyball team in China   Dushanthan, a young man from Jaffna, who represented 
Sri Lanka in the Special Olympic Games in Athens  
(© Sivapoomi, Jaffna)
4