Inclusive sport in Sri Lanka
As will be discussed later in the manual, Sri Lanka’s 
National Disability Policy promotes inclusion in sport, eg. having people with disabilities taking part in mainstream events alongside people 
without disabilities. Despite the existence of this 
policy, there have been relatively few initiatives aimed at promoting inclusive sport in Sri Lanka. In schools, children with mild impairments may naturally be included in mainstream PE lessons and sport competitions, but children with more severe disabilities tend to be segregated, eg. in special sports tournaments such as the Sunshine 
Games. The NPC’s programmes of disability sports 
are also conducted separately from mainstream sports events. Handicap International’s Sports For All Project has been promoting inclusive sport by including nearly all of its sports activities and events within existing, mainstream sports programmes. For example wheelchair basketball has taken place alongside regular basketball in 
Vavuniya, para table tennis and para badminton have been incorporated within mainstream 
tournaments, and events for people with disabilities (eg. sitting shot put and wheelchair races) were included in the Northern Province Sports Festival in Kilinochchi. Other bodies are also introducing more inclusive practices in sport; for 
example the National Youth Services Council has 
invited youth with disabilities to take part in its mainstream sports events.
Notes on use of language in this manual
Although this guide is aimed at activities with both 
children and youth, for simplicity it will refer to 
‘children’ rather than ‘children and youth’ throughout, 
except where youth are specifically being referred to. 
Children of both genders should be involved equally in 
sport and play, so the manual will use both masculine 
and feminine pronouns (‘he’ , ‘she’ , ‘him’ , ‘her’) when 
referring to children.
Sitting shot put at the Northern Province Sports Festival, 
Kilinochchi, 2012 Crutch race  during the Vavuniya North Divisional 
Sports Meet, 2012
5