comprehending things. Intellectual impairment 
may affect a person’s ability 
	to understand things
	to achieve developmental milestones (eg. sitting, crawling, standing, walking) within typical age ranges
	to solve problems
	to remember things
	to learn new information and skills as easily as others. 
How an intellectual impairment affects a person varies greatly: some people will only be a little slower than average in learning and other people 
may not think that they have an intellectual impairment, while 
others have severe 
difficulties and need a lot of support. The potential growth and development of a person with intellectual impairment depends 
also on his environment 
- the stimulation provided by the things and the people around that person can make a significant impact on his development, especially in early childhood.
The causes of intellectual impairment 
include: 
Before birth: some intellectual impairments are 
genetic in origin, eg. Down Syndrome. As well as 
intellectual impairment, Down Syndrome is also associated with distinctive facial features, short 
stature, increased risk of obesity, and higher 
prevalence of hearing impairment. People with Down Syndrome also have an increased likelihood of having breathing difficulties as a result of chest and lung infections, and of suffering from poor blood circulation due to congenital heart defects.
Intellectual impairment can also be caused by 
poor maternal nutrition (eg. iodine deficiency), 
drug use including drinking large amounts of alcohol during pregnancy, or an infection of the mother during pregnancy such as rubella or chicken pox.
During birth: intellectual impairment can result 
from complications during birth, such as poor 
oxygen supply to the brain, which can cause brain 
damage.
After birth: certain illnesses may cause brain 
damage and intellectual impairment such as meningitis or measles. Intellectual impairment can also result from serious head injuries, eg. road 
traffic accidents and falls.
III. Sensory Impairments
Sensory impairments include hearing and visual 
impairment.
Hearing impairment refers to the partial or 
complete loss of the sense of hearing. Hearing 
impairment ranges in severity – a person may be totally deaf or have varying degrees of hearing loss, in which case they are termed ‘hard of hearing. ’ Hearing impairment can originate from birth or can occur later in life. Causes of hearing impairment are as follows:
	genetics – many cases of hearing impairment have a genetic origin. Hearing impairment The distinctive facial features of Down Syndrome
A hearing aid amplifies sounds and can be useful to some 
children with hearing impairment 10