often runs in families; some children with 
hearing impairment have a sibling or other family member with hearing impairment. Hearing impairment is associated with certain 
genetic syndromes such as Usher’s syndrome 
(which also causes visual impairment).
	ear infections, eg. otitis media (glue ear), a viral or bacterial infection of the middle ear, 
resulting in a build-up of a sticky glue-like 
fluid in the ear. If untreated it can lead to permanent hearing impairment. Rubella can also cause damage to the ear.
	trauma to the ears, eg. in a bomb or landmine blast, or in a head injury, for example in a road traffic accident. Damage to ears can also be gradual, eg. through exposure to excessive noise over a long period of time.
	ageing is another cause of hearing impairment.
Speech impairment (impairment in ability to communicate) is frequently associated with hearing 
impairment - children learn how to speak through 
listening to others, so if they cannot fully hear, 
they are unable to develop speech on their own. As well as due to associated hearing impairment, speech impairments can also be caused by other disorders, eg:
	physical impairments, eg. cleft lip or cleft palate, vocal cord disorders, or cerebral palsy. As described earlier, cerebral palsy affects muscle coordination including the muscles 
involved in the production of speech.
	neurological disorders (disorders affecting 
the nervous system) which can damage the 
area of the brain responsible for language and 
communication. Such disorders include brain tumours or a brain injury (eg. from being hit or from falling).
Visual impairment is the partial or complete loss of vision. People with low vision are unable to read at normal distances, and require aids to read and see such as spectacles or magnifying glasses. 
People who are totally blind have no vision at 
all, and need to use non-visual resources such as Braille (a tactile system of raised dots which blind people read by touch) and text-to-speech computer technology. Because of their related difficulties in moving around, they may need 
additional training in mobility and orientation, eg. 
in using a white cane.
The leading causes of visual impairment include: 
congenital and genetic causes – visual impairment may be inherited or caused by an infection (eg. measles) transmitted from the mother to the developing baby during pregnancy.
	trauma/accident causing damage to the eye.
	infections such as measles.
	malnutrition, particularly Vitamin A deficiency, is a cause of visual impairment in developing countries.
	eye diseases such as cataract (a ‘clouding’ of the lenses of the eyes) and glaucoma (an abnormally high pressure within the eye). These do not commonly affect children and youth.
	age-related loss of vision (which also does not affect children and youth).
Types of vision loss include:
	tunnel vision – where the child has lost his peripheral vision and can see only a narrow, 
tunnel-like area directly in front of him.
	peripheral vision – the opposite of tunnel 
vision, where the child has difficulties with her 
central vision. This gives the child particular 
difficulties in moving around.
	interrupted vision – where the child is affected 
by irregular patches of poor vision, so that he 
may have to scan objects consciously in order 
Reading Braille
11