981. United Nations Convention on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Article 30 - Participation in cultural life, 
recreation, leisure and sport 
5. With a view to enabling persons with 
disabilities to participate on an equal basis 
with others in recreational, leisure and sporting activities, States Parties shall take appropriate measures:
1. To encourage and promote the participation, to the fullest extent possible, of persons with disabilities in mainstream sporting activities 
at all levels;
2. To ensure that persons with disabilities have 
an opportunity to organize, develop and participate in disability-specific sporting and recreational activities and, to this end, encourage the provision, on an equal basis with others, of appropriate instruction, 
training and resources;
3. To ensure that persons with disabilities have 
access to sporting, recreational and tourism venues;
4. To ensure that children with disabilities 
have equal access with other children to 
participation in play, recreation and leisure and sporting activities, including those activities in the school system;
5. To ensure that persons with disabilities have access to services from those involved in the organization of recreational, tourism, leisure 
and sporting activities.2. UN Convention on the Rights of 
the Child
Article 31
1. States Parties recognize the right of the 
child to rest and leisure, to engage in play and 
recreational activities appropriate to the age of 
the child and to participate freely in cultural life and the arts.
2. States Parties shall respect and promote the 
right of the child to participate fully in cultural and artistic life and shall encourage the provision of appropriate and equal opportunities for 
cultural, artistic, recreational and leisure activity. 
3.  National Policy on Disability for 
Sri Lanka
Article 8. Sports:
Sports will encompass people who have 
disability, (boys and girls, men and women). 
People who have disability will participate in 
sports activities of their choice like their peers for both recreational and competitive purposes.
(1) State and private organizations responsible 
for sports, starting at school level and continuing through all levels of administration will, in particular,
	recognizing their abilities, include events for categories of people who have particular disabilities in all public sports activities (such as events for wheelchair users, events for those who cannot see, etc).APPENDIX 1: NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LAW AND 
POLICY ON DISABILITY AND SPORT