5. Circulatory/respiratory conditions 
(heart, breathing problems)
	Seek medical advice on what physical 
activity is permissible for the child and select appropriate physical activities accordingly. Choose activities/roles for the child which 
are less physically demanding (eg. goal-
keeper, time-keeper, target games…)
	Be especially aware of the child becoming over-fatigued (breathing, skin colour…). Do not rely on the child knowing his/her own limits. Short spells of activity interspersed with rest periods are advisable.
	Ensure the child does not get over-excited by the game.
Child protection
The goal of child protection is to protect children from abuse while participating in your sport or play activities. The main types of child abuse are as follows
1:
	Physical abuse: physical injury to a child, or failure to prevent physical injury, or suffering, 
to a child, eg. by hitting, shaking, throwing, 
etc.
	Mental/emotional abuse: severe adverse effect on the emotional and behavioural development of a child caused by persistent or severe emotional ill-treatment or rejection, eg. causing the child to feel frightened, worthless or inadequate; for example bullying among children (especially 
adolescents) is a common form of mental/
emotional abuse.
	Neglect: failure to protect a child from exposure to any kind of danger, or failure to carry out important aspects of care, resulting in the significant impairment of the child’s health of development.
1 Abridged from Child Protection Policy of Chap Dai NGO, 
Cambodia	Sexual abuse: involving a child in sexual 
activities they do not truly understand, to which they are unable to give informed consent or that violate social taboos or 
family rules, such as touching a child’s 
genitals, forcing a child to watch or take part in pornography or coercing the child to have sex. It is considered abuse whether or not the child consents.
Additional to these categories the area of sexual exploitation is also important to highlight; 
	any actual or attempted abuse of a position of vulnerability differential power or trust, for sexual purposes, including but not limited to profiting monetarily, socially, politically from the sexual exploitation of another
2
To safeguard against child abuse in your sport/play programme, it is important to develop a Child Protection Policy. Such a policy covers areas such as behavioural protocols for staff  (eg. when working with children, travelling with children or disciplining children), staff  
recruitment and screening, and responding 
to allegations (ie. reporting and investigating allegations of abuse).  A Child Protection Policy should ideally be developed in consultation with your staff, and when finalised, it needs to be disseminated and staff trained in it. Periodic reviews and updates of the policy are also recommended. 
Sport/play programme leaders should seek 
more professional advice on developing a Child Protection Policy, eg. from government Child Rights Promotion Officers or the National Child Protection Authority in Sri Lanka.
Inclusive play  
is  
safe play!
2 Handicap International 2011, Protection of Beneficiaries 
from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse Federal Executive Division.
96