way, eg. throwing a ball or frisbee at someone’s 
face. Be vigilant about dangerous behaviour and bullying among the children which can lead to an accident, and take appropriate 
disciplinary action if it occurs. Excesses of 
excitement among the children can also inadvertently lead to accidents.
	Have an adequate child-to-staff ratio, to ensure that staff (and volunteers) can provide adequate supervision and observation during the play/sport session (as well as ensuring the 
quality of the session – see chapter 4).
	Be aware of the weather conditions – if the 
weather is very hot:
	ensure that drinking water is available
	increase the frequency and duration of rest 
sessions
	ensure that a shady place is available for rest 
sessions.
	Check that the playing ground is safe. It should be regularly checked for hazards such 
as rubbish (metal, bottles, etc), cow pats, 
thorns, etc.
	Ensure that children are appropriately dressed for physical activity. For example there is an increased risk for girls of tripping and falling if they are wearing a shalvar.
	Ensure that the task you give to each child is suitable for his level and ability.
	Store sports equipment safely. If equipment is strewn across the sports field there is more chance of someone tripping or falling over it.
	Have a first aid kit available in case of an 
accident. Check it from time to time to make 
sure it is stocked and well maintained. Know who to contact in case of an emergency (a qualified first-aider or local medical services).Specific health and safety 
issues related to impairment
In order to know about any specific health and safety considerations relevant to a particular child, you first need to have a good understanding of the child’s impairment. Ask the child and his/her 
parents about the child’s impairment and medical 
history. In a few cases (those with the most severe impairments), you may need to seek additional advice from a doctor/physiotherapist. For such children, it is of the greatest importance to plan appropriate and adapted physical activities, and to reassure the child and the parents of this and that you are managing any potential risks. As noted 
earlier, parents (and children themselves) may 
worry unnecessarily about accident and injury, leading to over-protection and exclusion. The play leader needs to demonstrate to the child and to the parents that you understand the risks and have taken all necessary steps to mitigate them.
This chapter covers specific health and safety 
considerations for five main categories of 
impairment.
1. Physical Impairment
Note that many of these points apply also to children with intellectual impairment, who also often have associated physical impairments.
Adaptation  
of activity – make sure that the activity is carefully matched to the child’s movement ability, strength 
and fitness level, 
eg. weight/size of equipment, distances run, duration of physical activity, etc.
Adapting to an unsuitable playing surface – using socks/
gloves to protect hands in a ‘wheelbarrow’ race 93