to see them effectively. Complicated visual 
tasks may become impossible for such a child.
	low contrast sensitivity – where the child has difficulty distinguishing an object from its background. For such children the lighting and colour scheme of the environment are especially significant.
	adaptability to light. Children with a visual impairment may find pronounced variations in light difficult to manage. They may find bright light painful, or they may find it difficult 
to adjust visually when moving from a bright 
to a dimly lit area or activity.
	impaired eye movements. Conditions such 
as nystagmus involve continuous involuntary 
movement of the eyes, usually from side 
to side, which creates significant focusing difficulties. Some children may have problems with convergence (the ability to train both eyes on the same object at the same time) while others may find it hard to shift their focus from a near to a far object.
Iv. Mental disability
Mental disabilities are medical conditions that include depression, schizophrenia, anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Mental disability affects a person’s 
thinking, feeling, mood, behaviour and daily 
functioning. It can change the whole way how a person sees the world. Symptoms vary from person to person and can include:
	excessive or irrational fear
	personality changes, eg. becoming unusually withdrawn, sad, violent, or excited
	confused thinking
	behavioural changes, eg. disturbed patterns of eating or sleeping
	inability to form and maintain relationships with others, or 
	difficulties in coping with daily life, eg. not paying attention to personal appearance or schoolwork. These feelings and changes can become so strong that they become difficult to manage. Someone 
can experience sporadic bouts of mental illness 
over many years, or have only one episode in life. 
The causes for mental disability are complicated 
and not fully understood. Often, mental illnesses are the result of a combination of biological, psychological, and environmental factors:
Biological factors:
	chemical imbalance in the brain: Some mental 
disabilities develop if these chemicals are out 
of balance, resulting in messages not being 
correctly transmitted through the brain.
	genetics (heredity): Many mental disabilities 
run in families passed on through the genes. 
So people who have a family member with a mental disability are sometimes more likely to develop a mental illness. 
	substance abuse: Long-term substance has been linked to anxiety, depression, and paranoia.
Psychological factors:
	Severe psychological trauma such as emotional, physical, or sexual abuse can 
cause a mental illness.
Environmental factors:
	Traumatic events in a child’s life can cause a 
mental disability such as a natural disaster, conflict, death or divorce in the family, living in poverty or severe stress, etc. 
v. Epilepsy
Epilepsy is defined as ‘a tendency to have recurrent seizures (sometimes called fits)’ .
1 These 
seizures results from ‘a sudden burst of excess electrical activity in the brain, causing a temporary disruption in the normal message passing 
between brain cells. This disruption results in the 
brain’s messages becoming halted or mixed up.
2
1 Epilepsy Action, http://www.epilepsy.org.uk/info/what-is-
epilepsy
2 Epilepsy Action, http://www.epilepsy.org.uk/info/what-is-epilepsy
12