	missing or short limbs, or limb deformities 
such as club foot (where the foot is rotated at the ankle).
	spinal deformities such as kyphosis (‘hunchback’) or lordosis (inward curvature of the spine).
	cerebral palsy (CP) – a group of chronic conditions that affect body movements and 
muscle coordination). CP can be caused 
by damage to the developing brain during pregnancy or during childbirth. Children with CP may have additional intellectual impairment or as is often the case, have full intelligence.
Children with CP often have abnormally increased muscle tone and muscle spasms, although sometimes the muscle tone is abnormally low and the child appears to be ‘floppy’ . Children with CP may also have poor coordination and trembling. 
They may experience difficulty in maintaining 
posture and balance when sitting, standing and walking.
	cleft lip/cleft palate – cleft lip is an incomplete joining of the upper lip. In a cleft palate, the roof of the mouth does not grow together during pregnancy leaving an opening to the nose.
	inherited conditions passed on from parent to child through the genes, eg. muscular dystrophy – a degenerative disease in which the child (nearly always boys) progressively loses muscle strength.
	spina bifida – an incomplete development of a baby’s spinal cord and its coverings during pregnancy which causes nerve damage. It can result in various degrees of paralysis in their lower limbs.
Acquired causes of physical impairment include accidents and medical conditions. Accidents 
include:
	war injuries (which are common in Northern 
Sri Lanka). This includes amputations (of legs 
and arms caused by bomb or landmine blasts), 
and shrapnel or gunshot wounds (which can lead to loss of function to arms and legs due to nerve damage).	spinal cord injuries resulting from road traffic accidents, gunshot wounds, falls from trees 
(eg. falls from palm trees 
are common in Northern Sri Lanka), etc. The severity and degree of impairment resulting from the spinal cord injury varies (eg. only legs may be affected, or legs and arms, and 
function/sensation loss 
may be total or partial), depending on the severity and the location of the injury on the spinal column. Paraplegia is a 
loss of function/sensation in the legs only, while in 
quadriplegia arms as well 
as legs are affected.
	brain injury (eg. as a result of road traffic accident or other trauma to the head), which 
affects the motor skills and the ability to control movement of the limbs.
	burns (eg. due to stove or electrical accidents), which if not treated correctly can lead to contractures (tightening of muscles affecting movements) in legs and arms and restricted movement.
Medical conditions which cause physical impairments include:
arthritis - pain, swelling, stiffness, and limited 
movement in the joints, especially in the hands. This is uncommon in children and 
youth.
multiple sclerosis – a neurological disorder 
which results in a range of symptoms such 
as muscle weakness, muscle spasms, and difficulties with coordination and balance
polio (which is no longer endemic in Sri Lanka).
II. Intellectual impairment 
Intellectual impairment refers to limitations of the cognitive and intellectual abilities of a person, meaning a slower rate of learning and Amputation
9