	Children with joint problems such as arthritis 
should avoid activities which cause twisting or jarring to the knees and ankles, eg. jumping.
	Children with bone disorders such as brittle bones should avoid all contact sports.
2. visual impairment
The playing environment – This is of particular importance to children with visual impairment. Make sure that the playing area is free of any potential risks, or that any hazards are made 
visible. For example, have a brightly coloured 
fence around a pond. Orient the child about the playground and the surrounding environment, ie. by taking the child for a guided walk across the play area while giving a verbal description, eg. ‘from here to the end of the playground is about 200 metres, it’s quite flat and grassy but at the far end there are some bumps, and on the right side there’s 
a wire fence you need to be aware of. ’
Clothing - it’s advisable for visually impaired 
players to wear shoes because of potential injury to feet, and to give more stability when running/walking.
Choice of game – it may be better to avoid high-
speed ball games, which can potentially cause 
injury to the child as they will have difficulty in seeing the ball and reacting to it quickly. Although cricket, for example, is played by several teams of people with visual impairment in Sri Lanka!
3. Hearing impairment
Safety instructions – make sure you give visual as well as audible signs when giving safety instructions. This is to prevent injury, for example in cricket a player with hearing impairment could 
be hit by a cricket ball if unprepared.
4. Epilepsy
Understanding the condition – Make sure you 
know if any child in your group has epilepsy and takes anti-epileptic medication. This medication can reduce or complete control the seizures. 
Ask the child/parents about how often the fits occur and how they affect the child – fits range in 
severity and in effect on the child. Sometimes the child feels ‘signs’ before having a fit. Ask the child about this and to give a warning if he/she feels a fit is imminent.
Avoid excessive stress during the play session 
– extreme excitement or stress can initiate a fit. However fits may occur less often when the child is kept moderately active and occupied, so moderate participation in sport for some children can help to control their epilepsy.
Activities to be avoided – play activities 
involving climbing (eg. on climbing frames) 
should be avoided because of the risk of falling. Children with epilepsy are sometimes excluded from swimming because of fear of drowning. However as long as precautions are taken there is no risk to children with epilepsy while swimming, eg. ensuring that the child is well supervised at all times (minimum one-to-one support), ensuring 
that the child keeps in shallow water, and using 
a floating aid.
When a child is experiencing a seizure...
	Help the child to the floor, and move away 
any furniture or objects they could injure 
themselves against.
	Place the child in the recovery position, to 
ensure their airway is free, as there is a risk the tongue can obstruct the throat
	After the fit, allow the child to rest in a quiet place alone, and give her a drink of water.
	Explain to other children about the child’s condition, so that the child will not be ostracised. Witnessing a child having a fit can be a frightening experience, especially for young children.
95