The playing environment - where possible, 
ensure that playing grounds are level, to avoid tripping and falls, and soft (eg. well covered with grass or sand) to reduce injury in case of 
falls. Children with difficulty walking/running 
can benefit from wearing supportive shoes to give more stability and additional ankle support. Special orthopaedic shoes may be available, or otherwise any high-sided shoes such as basketball shoes.
Avoid fast movements –  Children using 
prostheses, orthoses or crutches are more likely 
to trip and fall than other children. Therefore select sports and games where fast movement is not required, or adapt games to allow for players of different speeds to play together equally and fairly.
Physical contact – depending on the degree/type 
of disability, children with physical impairments 
may need to be protected from physical contact, eg. by choosing non-contact sports and games (badminton, boccia, etc), or by changing the rules of a contact game such as football and basketball (zoning, changing rules on tackling, etc).
Mobility aids. Be aware of the risk of accidents 
and injuries caused by mobility aids. For example children who wear orthoses (braces) can develop pressure sores/wounds on the ankle or knee caused by friction with the orthosis. Similarly children wearing a prosthesis (artificial limb) can develop swelling or pressure wounds/sores on the stump. Children with such injuries require 
medical treatment and need to rest and reduce 
physical activity until the injury has healed. Parents need to ensure that the child is taken to a rehabilitation centre periodically to ensure that the orthosis/prosthesis still fits correctly, to avoid such injuries, especially for children who are still growing.
Children who use wheelchairs can develop 
pressure sores at the base of their spine on the skin over the seating bone caused by sitting for too long. In this case the children need to rest and reduce physical activity, as well as getting medical treatment and advice. Other risks to wheelchair-users in sport are:	risk of falling from a wheelchair. To avoid this, ensure a level playing area, reduce physical contact and advise the wheelchair-user to reduce speed. Adapted sports wheelchairs 
with angled wheels give greater stability and 
are harder to tip over, and also have straps to secure the person’s trunk. But remember also that depending on the type of disability, some wheelchair-users are able to take a considerable amount of physical ‘rough and tumble’ – there is even a Paralympic sport of wheelchair rugby in which physical contact is 
the norm!
	risk of injury to hands, eg. hands can get 
caught in the wheels. Protective gloves can help in this case
	risk of injury to feet, eg. from dragging on the ground and under the wheelchair. The wheelchair-user should always wear covered 
shoes. A strap to secure the child’s legs and 
feet may also help.
	risk of clothing getting caught in the wheel. It is important for wheelchair users to wear suitable clothing during play, preferably shorts and T-shirt.
Mobility aids can cause injury to other children as well as the child with disability, eg. if crutches and prostheses are left lying around in the playing area someone can trip over them. Children without disabilities can be curious and play with wheelchairs, and risk injuring themselves as well as damaging the wheelchair.
Issues related to specific physical impairments:Wheelchair rugby – every bit as physical as normal rugby!
94