	providing inclusive services is often more 
economical than providing segregated services; eg. including children with disabilities in mainstream schools is cheaper 
than setting up and running separate, special 
schools.
Of course providing inclusive services (education, vocational training, sport, etc) may require adaptations and training for service-providers, to allow people with disabilities to take part alongside people without disabilities. That’s what this manual is about!
Promoting inclusive practices does not deny that 
for some people with disabilities and in some situations, segregated approaches are a more appropriate solution. For example many people with disabilities require specialised rehabilitation services which people without disabilities do not require. Or people with disabilities may want to 
form their own, segregated self-help groups 
or associations to promote disability issues. Therefore it must be recognised that a twin-track 
approach is needed – both inclusive services as well as services aimed at developing the capacities of the individual person with disability – which together can contribute to the final goal of full and effective social participation of people 
with disabilities.
The twin-track approach
TWIN TRACK APPROACH ADAPTED TO PERSONS 
WITH DISABILITIES
Promote an inclusive system 
for all, with ordinary support 
and specialised servicesEnhance empowerment of 
persons with disabilities 
through targeted initiatives for 
capacity building, independent 
living support, etc.
Equality of rights and 
opportunities for persons 
with disabilities
 
DFID (2000) Disability Poverty & Development, London5
5  DFID (pdf) available at :http:www.handicap- interna-
tional.fr/bibliographiehandicap/4PolitiqueHandicap/hand_pauvrete/DFID_disability.pdfInclusion and sport
So what does the social model and inclusion 
mean for sport and leisure service-provision?
Inclusion in sport has been defined as ‘increasing 
access to, participation within, and reducing 
exclusion from, any arena that provides sport and physical activity
6. Our goal should therefore be 
for all children and youth, no matter what type of 
degree of disability they have, to take part fully in sport and leisure, according to their choice. 
This means addressing the four groups of barriers 
explained earlier.
What are the barriers facing children with 
disabilities in accessing sport and leisure?
Barriers in accessing sport 
and leisure
The four types of barriers in accessing sport (physical, social, economic and legal) will be presented here, while chapter 4 will talk more about overcoming these barriers.
I. Physical barriers
Children with disabilities need to receive physical rehabilitation services (physiotherapy, prosthetics, orthotics, mobility aids, etc) to enable them to play sport. Rather than using the child’s normal, everyday 
wheelchair, it is preferable for some sports if the 
6 Interactive: Disability Equality in Sport
Accessibility difficulties at Vavuniya Urban Council sports facilities18