child can use a specialised sports wheelchair, eg. in 
Sri Lanka wheelchairs are available for basketball, badminton or wheelchair racing, but these can be very expensive.
Sports facilities need to be accessible, eg. 
equipped with ramps and rails, and with smooth surfaces and access routes. Sports facilities also need to have toilet and changing facilities which are accessible, to both males and females. Transport to sports facilities can often be a problem, especially in rural areas where people 
live far from sports facilities and transport services 
may be inaccessible or expensive.
Sports equipment (bats, balls, etc), may be too 
large or too heavy for the child to play with and may need adapting. Nets may be too high, and the size of the court/playing field may be too large. Adapting sports equipment and playing 
environments for children with disabilities is 
discussed in chapter 4.
II. Social barriers
There may be a number of unhelpful attitudes and opinions surrounding children with disabilities and sport, which can lead to the children’s exclusion. For example:
	children and youth with disabilities may themselves lack the self-confidence to take 
part in public activities such as sport. They may 
be shy or embarrassed, worried about being humiliated or bullied by other children/youth, or afraid of experiencing defeat.	sports organisers such as Sports Officers 
or community workers may not know 
about people with disabilities living in their community and therefore not organise events for them. Or they may see disability sport as a specialist area and not their responsibility.
	parents may be reluctant to allow their child to take part in sport, fearing that the child will get 
injured or will be bullied or embarrassed by the 
other children. They may also not understand the value of sport and feel that it is a waste of time, preferring the child to use her time in academic study.
	in schools there can be an over-emphasis on the competitive aspect of sport. PE teachers may see it as a waste of time involving a child with disability in sport, thinking that the child will never get selected for a school team. The 
teacher may also be afraid of the child getting 
injured, or not be aware of adapted games and sports that are more suitable for a child with disability. In a large class, the teacher may not have the time to attend to the specific needs of one individual child with special needs in PE.
	sports clubs, which also focus on competitive sport, may see it as a waste of time having 
youth with disabilities as members as they 
will not be able to compete.
III. Economic
Sport is a leisure-time activity and yet for many youth with disabilities, who are living in poverty, they do not have the luxury of free time to spend in sport, as they are busy in livelihood 
activities. There are also some financial costs to 
participation in sport, most notably transport. As noted before, transport for people with disabilities can be expensive, especially for wheelchair-users. Other costs include the cost of sports equipment and clothing. Poor families facing many more important financial priorities are unlikely to spend 
Specially-designed basketball wheelchair. Note the angled 
wheels, footplate and leg-strapThree-wheeled wheelchair suitable for track athletics
19