An inclusive system of services
MAINSTREAM SERVICES
Housing
Educatio n
Health  
Job placement   
Social Protection  
+BASICS SERVICES : 
Water
Sanitation
Security/protectio n
SUPPOR TS SERVICES
Re-adaptation services
Personal Assistant/Support person
Sign language Interpreter
Adapted transports  
………….
SPECIAL SERVICES 
Special Schools
Shelter workshops
Specialized vocational training center
Day care center for children
…
What are the implications of 
the social model of disability?
The medical approach to disability focuses on the 
individual, functional problems of people with disabilities themselves. However adopting a social model approach to disability makes us realise 
that disability is in part ‘our’ problem! It is aspects 
within society as a whole, and not only within the person with disability herself, that ‘create’ barriers and lead to the person being ‘disabled. ’ Therefore we all have a responsibility to reduce these 
barriers (physical, social, economic and legal), so that people with disabilities can fully take part in society.
This does not deny that people with disabilities 
often have specific needs which require professional, specialist services, in order to participate fully in society. But the social model allows us to see that there’s a lot that the wider society (including you!) can do to reduce or to completely eliminate the impact of the 
person’s impairment, and to increase their social 
participation.
People with disabilities may require special 
services (eg. rehabilitation and special education), but their needs must also be included into mainstream services which are available to the 
general public. They may also require ‘support 
services’ which enable them to access these mainstream services, eg. accessible transport and interpretation services (eg. in Sign Language), as shown in the diagram below:The social model and social 
inclusion
According to the UN definition of disability given earlier, people with disabilities’ goal is to achieve ‘full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others, ’ which is otherwise known 
as inclusion. In achieving inclusion, it is best 
practice to as far as possible provide services and 
organise activities for people with disabilities and without disabilities at the same time in the same place. This is for several reasons:
	equal provision for people with and without disabilities is promoting equal rights
	maximising contact between people with and without disabilities helps to ‘normalise’ disability and reduces the stigma that people with disabilities can face 
	inclusive service provision is often more convenient and accessible for a person with a disability than special services. Inclusion of disability into existing mainstream services, eg. education, sport, health and vocational training, means that disability-accessible 
services are available locally. Provision of 
special services is often limited to big cities far from where people with disabilities live.Deaf youth included in a mainstream karate club in Vavuniya. With 
Sign Language translation they can understand  
the coach’s instructions
17