money on sports equipment, transport and sports 
clothing for a child with disability.
Iv. Legal
What are the laws and policies in Sri Lanka related to sport and disability?
First of all, Sri Lanka is a signatory to relevant 
international laws. The UN Convention on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities recognises people with disabilities’ right to sport. The Government of Sri Lanka signed this convention in 2007. This Convention (Article 30.5) 
7 binds 
States Parties to not only make sure that people with disabilities participate in sport, but to do so at all levels, from community level up to national 
and international level. States Parties are required 
to make inclusive provisions for people with disabilities to participate in mainstream sport, as 
well as disability-specific provisions.
Sri Lanka has also signed and ratified the 
Convention on Rights of the Child (CRC). This Convention requires States Parties to ‘recognise 
the right of the child to … engage in play. ’
In Sri Lanka’s own domestic government policy, 
the right of people with disabilities to sport and leisure is also recognised. In 2003 the Ministry of Social Welfare, for example, published the ‘National Policy on Disability’ , which contains a chapter on sport (see Appendix 1). This policy espouses a 
highly inclusive approach to disability sport. For 
example it commits the Government of Sri Lanka to including disability events in mainstream sports meets, and to ensuring accessibility of sports facilities. Moreover it promotes adaptation of sports rules to enable people with disabilities to take part, and it includes provisions for people 
with disabilities to be trained and employed 
as coaches and referees, and for disability to be included in training programmes for sports personnel. The policy recognises that people with disabilities should participate in sport both for recreational and for competitive purposes.
7 The relevant article of this Convention, and other conven-
tions and policies referred to in this chapter, are given in full in Appendix 1The Government of Sri Lanka’s Disabled Persons 
(Accessibility) Regulations (2006) was mentioned earlier. This provides detailed regulations for accessibility of public buildings and public places 
(including designs of ramps, toilets, etc) and 
specifically mentions stadiums, sport complexes and sports venues.
Despite the existence of these policies and laws, 
as noted earlier it is awareness of the law/policy and implementation which really counts. In the case of the domestic law and policy above, it 
is questionable whether the relevant service-
providers (eg. the Ministry of Sport), are aware of them and if so, whether they are abiding by them. In the experience of the Sports For All Project in Northern Sri Lanka, many of the provisions of the National Policy on Disability are not being fulfilled; for example sport facilities are inaccessible, people with disabilities are rarely included in mainstream 
sports meets, and people with disabilities are not 
being trained as coaches.
In other sectors, there remain policy gaps:
	national education policy – there is little 
guidance in school syllabuses for teachers 
on Physical Education for children with 
disabilities. Special Education teacher training does not include Adapted Physical Activity, and Disability Sport has only recently been introduced into Physical Education teacher training.
	national sport policy – people with disabilities 
are not included in the majority of sports. There 
are 48 National Sports Federations registered with the Ministry of Sports. However there are only provisions for people with disabilities in 15 sports nationally
8, through the efforts of 
the National Paralympic Committee.
Therefore much remains to be done in Sri Lanka 
in terms of policy and legislation on sport and 
disability – both to disseminate and implement existing policy/law, and to develop policies/laws where there are gaps.
8 Athletics, wheelchair marathon, badminton, table tennis, 
wheelchair basketball, cycling, sitting volleyball, standing volleyball, beach volleyball, cricket (blind and deaf teams), power-lifting, shooting, wheelchair tennis, archery and swimming
20