Disability used to be thought of as a purely 
medical or functional problem. However it is increasingly recognised that disability also has social and environmental dimensions – there 
are barriers in society which can exacerbate the 
impact of an impairment on a person’s ability to take part in normal activity. A full understanding of disability therefore includes both the barriers that arise within the person (personal factors) and those that are environmental, as well as interactions between these. This is known as the Disability Creation Process. 
This has been recognised by the United Nations, 
which states that ‘persons with disabilities include those who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments which in interaction with various barriers may hinder their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others (added emphasis).
4 
To have a full understanding of disability, it’s therefore necessary to recognise and understand the ‘various barriers’ to social participation that people with disabilities face. So what are these 
barriers?
4 Article 1, United Nations Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with DisabilitiesBarriers to participation in society
The barriers that people with disabilities face in 
society fall into four, interlinked categories:
Physical Social
Economic Legal
Examples of these barriers are given below:
1. Physical – people with physical disabilities 
often need various mobility aids to help them move around their environment, eg. wheelchairs, 
crutches, walking frames, etc. Absence of these 
mobility aids is a physical barrier to their social participation. 
Even when people with disabilities have the 
mobility aids they require, they can still face many physical barriers due to the design of their environment and services, which is often designed 
for people without disabilities. For example:
	buildings which have steps are inaccessible to 
people who use wheelchairs or crutches
	public transport is often inaccessible, eg. wheelchair-users or other people who are 2. The social model of disability
How can a person with visual impairment walk safely down this street? How can a wheelchair-user access this latrine?14