Epilepsy can be caused by complications during 
childbirth, or by trauma to the brain (eg. a head injury). However in many cases there is no known cause.
Children with certain disabilities such as cerebral 
palsy and Down syndrome have a greater probability of also having epilepsy.
The normal treatment for epilepsy is to take 
anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). For many people with epilepsy AEDs reduce the frequency of or 
completely stop seizures. Some types of epilepsy 
are childhood-related and the frequency of fits gradually declines as the child grows up.
vI. Multiple impairment
Multiple impairment simply refers to a child who has more than one impairment. As mentioned earlier, some disabilities are closely related; for example a child with hearing impairment is 
likely to have additional speaking impairment. 
Cerebral palsy is a complex condition which involves physical impairment, often intellectual impairment and speaking impairment, and sometimes epilepsy.vII. Others
Certain chronic health conditions can be considered as disabilities because they affect a child’s long-term physical functioning. For example circulatory conditions such as congenital 
heart defects can reduce the heart’s efficiency and 
lead to symptoms such as fainting, breathlessness, poor growth and under-development of limbs and muscles. Chronic respiratory diseases such as asthma also affect a child’s physical functioning. Asthma is a chronic lung condition which is allegedly the commonest respiratory disease in Sri Lanka, affecting 15 to 20% of the population 
and leading to 800 deaths a year.
3 The main 
symptom is the ‘asthma attack’ , during which 
the child experiences difficulty breathing. The child coughs, feels shortness of breath and has 
a tight feeling in the chest. Asthma attacks can 
be triggered by an allergen in the environment such as dust or tobacco smoke, or a stimulus such as exercise or stress. A common treatment for asthma is to use an ‘inhaler’ which contains a drug to relax the muscles involved in breathing.
Another type of impairment which does not fit 
into the previous categories is dwarfism. This 
refers to a set of genetic conditions leading to restricted growth. Depending on the genetic condition, people with dwarfism can have other functional and medical problems as well as restricted growth, eg. joint problems and spinal deformities.
3 Dr. Melanie Amarasooriya, The Sunday Times13