Poverty
Exclusion, limited 
access to livelihood, 
education, services, 
information   Dangerous work & living 
conditions, malnutrition, 
poor hygiene, limited 
access to health care, & 
lack of awareness, 
increase risk of 
disability
DisabilityPoverty is the cause and also consequence 
of Disability3. Economic – people with disabilities are 
more likely to be living in a situation of poverty. This is firstly because they can face problems finding employment due to their impairment, 
if workplaces are inaccessible or employers’ 
attitudes are discriminatory; and secondly because having a disability can incur additional costs such as:
	medical care
	rehabilitation equipment, eg. mobility aids
	transport – eg. wheelchair-users and other people with severe disabilities may have to take tuk-tuks rather than buses as they are more accessible but also more expensive.
	technology – eg. mobile phones with video can enable deaf people to use Sign Language with one another; people with visual impairment can benefit from computer 
technology with text-to-voice software.
 
4. Legal – to assist in removing all of the above 
barriers (physical, social and economic), there is need for the appropriate government legislation and policy framework to be in place to protect 
the rights and interests of people with disabilities, 
ensuring that the services they require are provided. Legislation and policy should outline broad principles in addressing disability issues, but also provide regulations in specific sectors, eg. education, employment, transport, health-care and communication.
In Sri Lanka, examples of such legislation and 
policies are:	the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Government of Sri Lanka signed in 2007 (but it has not been 
ratified). 
	the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 1996 (Government of Sri 
Lanka), which established a National Council for Persons with Disabilities 
	Disabled Persons (Accessibility) Regulations, 2006 (Government of Sri Lanka), which provides regulations on accessibility of all 
public buildings, public places and public 
transport. The Regulations state that all public buildings were to be made accessible within three years of the coming into operation of the Regulations.
	the National Policy on Disability, 2003 (Ministry of Social Welfare, Government of Sri 
Lanka), which covers a wide range of areas 
including education, vocational training, housing, health, etc (the section on sport is presented in the appendix of this manual).
Whether the legislative and policy framework 
protecting people with disabilities’ rights in Sri 
Lanka is adequate is debatable. What is beyond doubt, though, is that the mere existence of legislation and policies is not enough – they also need to be put into practice. Once legislation and policies are developed, there needs to be awareness-raising and training for the relevant service-providers (eg. teachers, social services, 
etc), and the resources need to be made available 
so that they can implement the policy. The extent to which service-providers in Sri Lanka are aware of disability legislation and policy, and to which the legislation and policies are being implemented, is questionable.
16