slow at walking or who have limited physical 
strength have difficulty getting on and off of buses
	design of toilets and bathrooms is often unsuitable for people who use wheelchairs: wheelchair accessible toilets need to be larger, with bars to help the person lift themselves on and off the toilet, for example
	pavements are often uneven and contain many obstacles (street signs, holes, parked cars, etc), and are therefore extremely 
hazardous for people with visual impairment 
to use.
There is therefore need for accessibility 
modifications to enable people with disabilities 
to access their physical environment, eg:
	ramps in public buildings
	toilets which are big enough to accommodation wheelchairs
	pavements which are level and clear of obstacles etc.
There is also a gender dimension to physical accessibility of facilities and services. Women and girls with and without disabilities need adapted services to support their access; for example ensuring the times of services are a time which doesn’t clash with childcare needs, or information 
about these services specifically targeting 
women so they receive appropriate information and know the services exist.2. Social – social barriers are the prevailing 
knowledge, attitudes and practices within society 
towards people with disabilities. They include lack of knowledge and awareness about people with disabilities and their needs and rights, negative attitudes, lack of skills in dealing with people with disabilities, and discriminatory behaviour. These problems can be found within persons with disabilities themselves, their family, professionals 
who are in contact with them, and the wider 
public. Examples are as follows:
	parents of a child with disability believing that educating the child is a waste of time and money, and therefore neglecting their education, leading them to have fewer 
employment opportunities in future
	a teacher not giving adequate support and 
attention to a child with learning difficulty in her class, so the child loses interest in school 
and eventually drops out
	a youth with disability refusing to take a place 
on a vocational training course, because she 
has been brought up to be dependent on her 
family; she likes to stay at home and has little idea of how to help herself
	employers being unwilling to give a job to people with disabilities, believing them to be less productive than other people
	knowledge and awareness in society about 
Sign Language being low, so that deaf people 
have difficulty communicating with the hearing world and accessing services
	discrimination against people with mental illness, leading to them being ostracised from society.
To address these problems, there is need for:
	people with disabilities themselves to be empowered to want to participate in society
	awareness-raising and advocacy among the general public, and also specific groups (eg. parents, teachers, teachers and the 
government) about the needs, abilities and 
rights of people with disabilities
	training for the public and professionals, 
eg. in skills such as Sign Language, inclusive 
education, accessibility, etc.
Good practice – accessibility ramp15