The benefits of sport and play have been amply 
documented and researched. Here is a summary of the main benifits.
Increased physical activity and 
improved health
Sport and physical activity are important 
components in a healthy lifestyle for children. Physical activity contributes to developing healthy bones and efficient heart and lung 
function, and can positively impact on the 
functioning of the body’s immune system. Sport and physical activity contribute to the prevention 
of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension, obesity and osteoporosis.
All children, including 
those without disabilities, are becoming increasingly sedentary, due to changes in lifestyle (eg. increased use of TV and the internet), family pressure to study harder, etc. Obesity rates 
in Sri Lanka are rising - 0.4 
million schoolchildren are thought to be overweight in Sri Lanka (2011)
9. Children 
with disabilities may be particularly prone to a sedentary lifestyle – children 
with physical impairments 
(especially wheelchair-users 
and those with other severe mobility impairments) have particular difficulty in moving. Children with visual impairment also tend to be more inactive because of fear of falling over and injury. Parents may over-protect a child with disability, eg. not allowing him to play for fear of injury, which also 
contributes to low activity levels. Low physical 
activity can lead to health complications for children with disabilities, eg. contractures can 
9 Nutrition & Lifestyle: The Official Blog of the Department 
of Nutrition, Medical Research Institute, Sri Lanka, 24/5/11increase, and wheelchair-users can develop 
bedsores, circulatory or urinary problems.
Young women may be particularly at risk of 
physical inactivity because of cultural attitudes 
towards their participation in sport. It’s therefore particularly important that sport and play programmes include young women, eg. by ensuring a safe environment for them and by selecting appropriate physical activities for them, eg. dance.
Increased strength and functional 
ability
Sport and physical activity can increase muscle 
strength and also improve functional ability, such as range of motion, gross motor skills (eg. walking, jumping, kicking), fine motor skills (eg. 
hand function – grasping, gripping), balance 
and coordination (eg. hand-eye coordination). While this is of benefit to all children, children with disabilities (especially physical or intellectual impairments) may be in particular need of developing these skills. For example:
	wheelchair-users need to develop upper-body strength to push themselves independently, without the need for a carer
	children with amputations, paralysis or contractures (tightening of the muscles) may need exercise for muscle strengthening, to What are the benefits of sport and play for children and youth?
Physical activity is particularly 
vital for young people with 
Down Syndrome, who are at 
greater risk of obesity
Wheelchair-racing – a great way to develop upper body strength22