improve gross motor skills, and to improve 
balance
	children with contractures (either arm or leg) need exercises to increase the limb’s range of motion
	children with intellectual impairment or cerebral palsy frequently have coordination or balance problems, and poor motor skills (both gross and fine).
By developing strength and functional ability, children with disabilities become more autonomous and less dependent on their parents. For example a wheelchair-user can push herself, and a child with cerebral palsy can learn to feed 
or dress herself.
Educational benefits
Sport and physical education can teach children 
key values such as honesty, teamwork, fair play, respect for themselves and others, discipline, and adherence to rules. While these are valuable 
lessons for all children, children with disabilities 
in particular may lack the social education and opportunities to learn these lessons, due to overprotection at home and isolation.
Sport and physical activity are seen by some 
as the antithesis to education and academic achievement – time spent playing is ‘wasted’ 
study-time. However this is erroneous, for two 
reasons. Firstly, sport and physical education in schools actually contributes to academic subjects rather than detracts from them, eg. it contributes to curriculum topics in Mathematics and Science (measurement of distance, time, etc). Secondly, academic research has consistently shown that spending a reasonable amount of time in physical 
activity does not hinder academic performance, 
and it may actually improve it. Some studies have shown, for example, that engaging in physical activity leads to increased concentration, enhanced creativity and memory, better task performance and problem-solving among children in school. It may therefore be beneficial 
for children with intellectual impairment to take 
part in physical activity, in order to improve their cognitive performance.Improved psycho-social situation
Sport provides fun, relaxation and an escape from stress. Research has shown that sport and physical activity can be effectively used in treating depression. Stress and psycho-social disorders 
can affect any child, eg. as a result of family crisis, 
school pressure or the anxieties of adolescence. However stress and psycho-social disorders are more widespread in areas affected by conflict such as Northern and Eastern Sri Lanka, where children may have experienced more serious trauma and disruption to normal life (death in the family, family dislocation, displacement, etc).
Sport and play has been used in many parts of 
the world in programmes to normalise children’s mental state after a war or natural disaster. Sport and play programmes can therefore provide psycho-social relief to children in North and Eastern Sri Lanka, especially those with conflict-related psycho-social trauma.
Higher self-esteem/self-confidence 
Low self-esteem and self-confidence can affect all children; any schoolchild, for example, can be the victim of bullying just because he or she is different from other children. Children can suffer 
from low self-esteem because of unsupportive 
parents, or because of emotional crises during adolescence as their bodies change. Children with disabilities may be particularly susceptible Sport as an educational activity – measuring distance in 
standing long-jump
23