opportunities to meet other children and learn 
social skills such as cooperation, sharing, turn-taking, etc.
Inclusive sport can build the self-esteem 
of children with disabilities, reducing their inferiority complex, if they are able to compete equally with and maybe even beat children who do not have a disability. For example a child with physical impairment discovers that she is an excellent carom player and represents her school in tournaments. The child gains prestige 
and status within the school through this, which 
over-rides the fact that she has a disability.
Some children with disabilities who are 
particularly gifted in sport may be held back if they only have opportunities to compete against other children with disabilities. For example a child who is deaf who is a talented athlete should 
be able to compete against all children to give 
him extra competition and to develop his talent.
Inclusive sport – benefits to other 
children
Giving children without disabilities contact with 
and exposure to children with disabilities can be a valuable life experience, as they learn about and gain a broader understanding of what it is to be 
human. They learn empathy, patience, tolerance, 
acceptance and respect for people who are different from themselves. Children can sometimes be cruel towards those with disabilities. Through ongoing contact with children with disabilities, children without disabilities will gradually stare, point or laugh less at them – they will increasingly accept them as children just like themselves. This 
breaks the vicious cycle of segregation: 
therefore children without 
disabilities have little social 
contact or understanding about 
disability, and so they may show 
prejudicial or discriminatory 
behaviour towards children with 
disabilitieschildren with disabilities are kept 
at home by their parents because 
they are afraid of prejudice and 
discrimination
which 
reinforces 
parents’ and 
children with 
disabilities’ 
segregation  and so on…Inclusive sport also teaches children without 
disabilities about the wider values of sport. Often a lot of emphasis on sport, eg. in schools, is placed on winning – on cups, medals and 
trophies. Inclusive sport shows that there is more 
to sport than this – sport is also about personal development, about each child doing their best, trying hard and improving themselves. A child with a deformed leg may never get selected for the school football team, but he can enjoy himself in an adapted-rules game of football in a PE lesson, improve his fitness and inspire others with 
his efforts and perseverance. 
Many of the principles of inclusive sport benefit 
all children, not just those with disabilities. For example in schools, inclusive PE teaching or coaching promotes an individual instructional approach and adapting to the learning style of each child. Even children who do not have 
a disability vary greatly, eg. in physical ability, 
coordination, cognitive ability, behaviour, interest in sport, preferred learning method, attention span, etc. Inclusive teaching and coaching enables the teacher/coach to respond more effectively to the individual needs of each and every child, to provide better quality, more effective PE lessons 
and coaching sessions. 
Similarly in children’s clubs, play and games 
sessions can attract children from a wide range of ages, and it can be a challenge leading a session for young and older children at the same time. Individualised and adapted approaches can help the play leader to design and deliver games 
sessions which are suitable and enjoyable for all 
the participating children regardless of their age, and also ensure safety (since there is greater risk in games and sport with mixed age groups of children playing together). 
Accessibility is another issue which is central to 
inclusion but also benefits everyone. Improving 
playing fields so that they are level, with quality 
surfaces and free from hazardous objects provides a safe playing environment to all children, not just 
those with disabilities.
25