this and their other responsibilities, such as family 
and domestic commitments, as well as academic studies, cultural activities, etc. There is a risk that a child enjoys sport so much that he neglects his 
other activities and responsibilities.
Risk of injury/impairment  – while sport and 
play can reduce the effects of an impairment 
on a child’s functioning as described earlier (by increasing strength and developing the child’s 
functional ability), sport can also exacerbate an 
existing impairment or create a new impairment through injury. Chapter 6 of this manual gives advice on ensuring safe practice to prevent such accidents.
Promoting undesirable behaviour/traits 
– earlier in this chapter the positive values and 
life-skills that sport can impart were discussed 
(fair play, discipline, teamwork, adherence to the rules, etc). However unfortunately in society, a fair 
amount of undesirable behaviour also takes place 
in sport and this is sometimes tolerated or even promoted by schools or sports clubs. Unsporting behaviour, cheating, sledging (players verbally abusing their opponent to gain an advantage), etc. are common in sports such as cricket and football. Off the pitch, hooliganism and violence among spectators sometimes spoil matches. 
Responsible adults (coaches, PE teachers, etc) 
need to ensure that positive behavioural traits are promoted through sport, both on and off the pitch.
Models of inclusive sport
What, then, is inclusive sport? There are various ways in which children with disabilities can participate in sport, and there are various degrees to which inclusion can be possible. The form of 
inclusion which is possible with a given child 
depends on the child’s impairment (its type and severity), and the nature of the sport/physical activity.
Several models have been put forward to explain 
the variety of possible forms that inclusion in sport can take. This manual will present two of them: 
the ‘Continuum of Inclusion’ (Winnick, 1987) and 
the ‘Inclusion Spectrum’ (Stevenson and Black, 2011). Both models are useful for understanding inclusive sport. A difference between the two models is that the Continuum of Inclusion focuses more on sport while the Inclusion Spectrum is 
based more on PE and play.
At this point it’s useful to define several terms 
which will be used. Adapted sports include those variations of mainstream sports which have been made to enable people with disabilities to play, for example wheelchair basketball or sitting volleyball. Disability sports include 
adapted sports, but also those sports which have 
no mainstream equivalent because they were created specifically for people with disabilities. These include goalball and boccia (which will be explained later). Adapted physical activity refers 
more broadly to adaptations in physical activity more generally, including sport, play and physical 
education.
1. The Continuum of Inclusion
Winnick proposes five levels of inclusion in sport 
as explained below: 
1. Regular sport  – at this level of inclusion, 
children with disabilities are included into regular, mainstream sport with no adaptations at all. This includes, for example, deaf youth taking part 
in athletics events. They can participate equally 
alongside people who are hearing in almost all events, track and field
10, with minimal additional 
support (eg. Sign Language interpretation and a flag at the start to accompany the starting gun in track events).
Another example is participation of people with 
physical impairments in sedentary games, such 
10 Start-light systems are needed for higher-level competi-
tive events, especially for the sprint distances27