to low self-esteem and self-confidence. They 
may suffer from ‘inferiority complex’ – viewing themselves as being inferior to other children. This self-view may be the result of the attitudes 
and practices of their families and others around 
them such as their teachers and other children. Such damaging attitudes and practices including infantilising (treating the child with disability like 
a much younger child), over-protecting, ‘spoon-
feeding’ , bullying, denying equal opportunities, etc. Children with disabilities may therefore be shyer and more withdrawn than other children, having less belief and confidence in their own abilities.
Sport and play can help to address a child’s low 
self-esteem or low self-confidence, by enabling the child to:
	enjoy the excitement of winning, and the praise and recognition that she receives after a victory
	sense achievement when she can achieve 
personal goals – eg. when hitting a cricket 
ball for six for the first time, or when beating her personal best time in athletics
	experience the satisfaction of trying and mastering a new skill, eg. learning to ride a bicycle, or playing table tennis for the first time
	broaden his horizons through travelling to new places for away fixtures	meet new people and make new friends
	gain experience of leadership or responsibility, eg. by being appointed a team captain or a referee.
Experience from the Sports For All Project has shown that young people with disability can ‘forget’ they are disabled when they are playing and succeeding in sport. Sport can contribute to creating a whole new identity for the youth with disability - she starts to consider herself firstly as a sportswoman and secondly as a person with 
disability.
What are the benefits of 
inclusive sport and play?
The section above has shown how children (both 
with and without disabilities) can reap many benefits from taking part in sport and games. There are additional benefits to inclusive sport, 
ie. sport provision for people with and without disability together, in the same place and at the same time. The benefits of inclusive sport are not just felt by the children with disabilities, but by other children too.
Inclusive sport – benefits to the child 
with disability
Inclusive sport contributes to the socialisation of 
children with disabilities, especially those with severe disabilities who may otherwise have few 
Inclusive carom can have a positive impact on people 
with disabilities’ self-esteemSporting achievements can boost the self-confidence of these youth 
with learning difficulties
24