as chess, carom, etc, or standing games such as 
darts or cue sports (snooker, billiards, pool). A wheelchair-user, for example, can play against a person without a disability with no adaptation 
to the game, and with no need to organise 
separate games/tournaments for the players with disabilities. A person with a disability affecting one arm would be able to play darts against people with no disability.
2. Regular sport with accommodation  
– in this case, the child with disability is able to 
participate in regular, mainstream sport but with some accommodation or modification, to allow 
the child to compete equally with other players 
(but not to give an additional advantage). A celebrated example is the case of Oscar Pistorius, the South African double-amputee athlete who competes alongside athletes without disabilities with the aid of two prosthetic legs. After a lengthy legal process, the Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled that the use of these prosthetic legs gave 
Pistorius equal opportunity with other athletes 
and not an unfair advantage.
Children with disabilities may be able to take 
part in other regular sports with children without disabilities, without adapting the sport, with the aid of their mobility aids. For example a child with a foot deformity who wears orthotic shoes 
may be able to play cricket as well as any other 
children without having to adapt the game to accommodate his needs.
3. Regular and adapted sport – at this 
level of inclusion, the sport itself is adapted to allow people with and without disabilities to play together. An example would be in tennis doubles, where one player has a disability and the other does not. The player without a 
disability follows normal tennis rules (regular 
sport), while the player with a disability follows modified rules – she is allowed two bounces of the ball per volley instead of one (adapted sport). see photo below
Another example would be a marathon which incorporates a wheelchair marathon within the 
mainstream race. Athletes with and without 
disabilities follow the same course, although start times are staggered and the results are separated between the two categories. 
The ‘Unified Sports’ also falls within this category 
in the Continuum of Inclusion. Unified Sports is a branch of Special Olympics, the worldwide 
movement of sport for people with intellectual 
impairment. Unified Sports, however, involves mixed teams of people with intellectual impairment (termed ‘athletes’) and without intellectual impairment (termed ‘partners’). For example in 7-a-side football a team consists of 4 
athletes and 3 partners. Unified Sports originated 
in the USA, has been promoted in many countries where Special Olympics is present including India and Bangladesh. Sports practiced using the Unified approach include athletics, basketball, badminton, football and volleyball. 
4. Adapted sport integrated –  this level 
of inclusion is where athletes with and without disabilities participate in adapted or disability Most people with physical impairments can easily play sedentary 
games inclusively without adaptations
‘Mixed’ – disabled/non-disabled doubles in tennis
28