Inclusive sport or disability 
sport?
Because of the benefits of inclusive sport, does 
this mean that there should be no segregated, disability sport provisions at all? Not necessarily – remember, the last chapter spoke of the ‘twin-
track’ approach to full social participation. 
While it is best practice to promote inclusive approaches such as inclusive sport, segregated approaches such as disability sport can also play a role in advancing the inclusion of people with disabilities. For example some children with disabilities who are new to sport may prefer to play with other children with disabilities, to gain 
confidence and to overcome their shyness before 
being introduced to more competitive play with other children without disabilities. It’s important to respect the choice of children and youth with disabilities, whether they prefer to play inclusive or segregated sport. Disability sports, eg. wheelchair basketball, can provide opportunities to people with disabilities to compete at national 
and international level, giving them considerable 
social opportunities (travel, new experiences, etc), and even economic reward. Through this they can become role models to inspire other people with disabilities. Disability sports events such as the Paralympics are also effective in changing public perceptions towards people with disabilities and 
creating more understanding and acceptance of 
disability.
So disability sport has a place in sport provision 
for people with disabilities, which is why it is recognised (along with inclusive sport) in Sri Lanka’s National Policy on Disability. However it should also be remembered that providing 
disability sport is often expensive (it needs more 
specialised equipment such as wheelchairs, and players’ transport costs for coaching sessions and events can be expensive), and the number of beneficiaries can be proportionally quite low. Inclusive sport, on the other hand, by using existing structures such as schools and sports clubs, can provide benefits to a large number of 
children and youth at relatively low cost.What are the potential 
harmful effects of sport?
While participating in sport and play potentially 
has many positive impacts for children, including those with disabilities, there are also a few dangers and pitfalls that we should be aware of.
Negative impact on the child’s psycho-
social situation/self-esteem –  earlier it was 
described how participation in sport can reduce 
a child’s stress, enable him to relax, and have positive impacts on his self-esteem and self-
confidence. However if the sport/play experience 
is badly delivered, the result may be exactly the opposite! For example a sports or play activity may not be appropriately adapted, so that the child fails at the task, and experiences excessive stress in trying to achieve it. This may humiliate the child in front of other children, negatively impacting upon his self-esteem. The social and 
psycho-social benefits which children with 
disabilities can derive from participating in sport do not happen automatically – it depends on 
how the sports/play activity is planned, adapted and delivered. 
Exacerbating exclusion / negative 
attitudes – similar to the point above, having 
children with disabilities participate in sport 
alongside children without disabilities does not necessarily create positive awareness about 
disability among the general public. If the attempt at inclusion is unsuccessful, it may have the opposite effect. For example if a child with disability is placed in an inclusive game environment with insufficient adaptations, she may perform very badly which would reinforce the belief (among spectators and non-disabled players) that children with disabilities should 
not take part in sport, or should have separate, 
‘special’ events. Alternatively, making excessive adaptations which result in giving the child with disability an unfair advantage over a child without disability may lead to resentment and a backlash against inclusion.
Lack of balance – while children should 
participate in sport and play, we should also 
ensure that they strike a suitable balance between 
26