2. Sport
What sports and games is the child interested in playing? While it’s important to get 
the child’s opinion on this, remember that the child’s experience may limit her answers 
to the common sports and games that she sees every day. A child is unlikely to mention a sport such as sitting volleyball which 
she has never seen or heard of before. The child needs to know 
about options and opportunities available so that she can make an informed choice.
Are there any sports/activities which are inadvisable for the 
child? For example highly physical contact sports such as rugby or kabaddi are generally not suitable for children who are particularly weak or fragile (although remember that adaptations 
can be made to make many games, even highly physical ones, 
more suitable).
Sport and fitness assessment can also include an in-depth 
assessment of the child’s fitness levels. This is useful if you 
want to measure the results of a coaching camp or a training 
programme  
on a group of children. There are various ways of assessing or measuring fitness. One 
assessment  
system that has been developed 
specifically for children with disabilities is the Brockport Physical Fitness Test (BPFT). This consists of a battery of 27 fitness tests covering three domains of physical fitness:
	aerobic capacity
	body composition
	musculoskeletal functioning (muscular strength and endurance, and flexibility)
For a full description of the tests included in the BPFT, please refer to Winnick, 2005 (see references). Some examples of tests used in the Sports For All Project are shown above:
3. Social assessment
A child’s participation in sport and physical activity depends as much on social and environmental factors as on the physical/medical factors, as discussed in chapter 2. Therefore an assessment should also cover:
	the child’s psycho-social/psychological status – does the child have the self-confidence to participate in public, social activities like sports practice? Or is she excessively shy? What concerns does the child have about her participation? You Trunk lift – measuring core strength and flexibility
Dumb-bell lift and hold, 
assessing muscular 
strengthSit and reach test, measuring flexibility
36