3. Intellectual impairment
The degree of intellectual impairment (ie. comprehension, memory, 
attention, etc) varies from child to child, as does the child’s other difficulties (mobility, balance, coordination, hearing, etc). Therefore a thorough understanding of the individual child’s abilities is needed for you to be able 
to effectively work with him.
	When giving instructions, ensure that the child with intellectual 
impairment is standing at the front where she can hear and see you clearly. Children with intellectual impairment can have difficulties in concentrating and paying attention. They can easily be distracted and 
you need to be able to see them easily to check that they are following 
you. 
	According to the child’s level of intellectual impairment, you may need to give clear, short and simple instructions, for example, ‘when I blow the whistle, run to the red cone over there. ’ Use accessible language, eg. when talking about complex matters such as biomechanics. Make sure that the game or task that you are 
explaining is within their capacity of understanding. Games with complicated rules 
are best avoided. This also applies to young children who have difficulties grasping complicated rules.
	Use a wide range of teaching methods, eg. verbal instructions, visual demonstration and other visual and auditory inputs (eg. pictures, noise-making toys). You may also need to manually guide the person, ie. using your hands to guide the child’s body.
	Repeat instructions as they often have memory problems.
	Children with intellectual impairment can be particularly attracted by colourful sport and play equipment.
	The child may have associated physical impairments as well as the intellectual impairment, so use exercises and games to try to improve the child’s balance and coordination.
	Be patient and allow extra time where necessary because of their understanding and mobility problems.
4. Mental disability
Children with mental disability have very specific needs so it is difficult to give general advice. You need to carefully observe and talk to the child to find out about him, as well as talking to the parents.
	Some children may feel uncomfortable or anxious playing in a large group of children, especially if the child doesn’t know them. Therefore allow him to play in a small group, or maybe even alone.
	Find out who the child’s friends are, or encourage other children to befriend her.
	If the child appears to be withdrawn or disinterested, provide appropriate encour -
agement and motivation, without being forceful or pushy.Children are attracted to 
brightly-coloured sports 
equipment
41