need to understand what these concerns are so that you can begin to address 
them, eg. worries about bullying, failing, cost of transport, etc.
	parental support and attitudes – how do the parents feel about the child’s participation in sport? Are they supportive? What are their worries and concerns?
	transport and accessibility issues – where does the child live in relation to the sports/play venue? Can the child get their independently, or with assistance? Is this assistance available, eg. a friend helping to push the wheelchair, or the father giving a lift by motorbike? Or is public transport required, and is this a barrier?
Make sure the parents (and if necessary, medical professionals) are involved in the assessment!
Examples of assessment forms used in the Sports For All Project are given in Appendix 
2. But note that these are only examples – you should develop your own forms based on your own needs!!
General principles in inclusion
When working with children with disabilities in sport and physical activity, whatever the type or degree of disability, there are some general principles to keep in mind. Jowsey (1992) provides us with the following useful list: 
1. Focus on ability not disability! It is easy to first of all see the child’s disability and 
worry about what the child is unable to do. But instead you should establish what the child’s strengths and abilities are and try to develop these. Children with Down Syndrome, for example frequently have well-developed muscle strength even if their abilities in other areas (eg. body coordination and balance) is poor. Similarly children who use wheelchairs or crutches may have well-developed upper-body strength, and therefore excel in sports and games where this is required. To build the child’s confidence and motivate her to continue practising sport, it’s important that she 
experiences success, so you should focus on activities (at least in the beginning) which 
play to her strengths and abilities, where she is most likely to succeed. 
2. Encourage independence – children with disabilities may be over-protected at 
home and not allowed to develop their independence. Participation in PE and sport is an opportunity to help the child to develop this independence, eg. pushing and transferring from his wheelchair himself, dressing, etc. But you should also make sure that the environment is conducive to developing this independence, eg. it is accessible 
and free of obstacles, and the child is able to move around freely and safely.
3. Encourage the child to be responsible for his own learning – overprotection can 
also lead to children with disabilities not thinking and solving problems for themselves. PE and sport is an excellent medium through which children can learn to think for themselves. When introducing a new skill (eg. how to execute a badminton serve, how to skip with a rope), take a step back and let the child explore how to carry out the 
action herself before offering assistance. Encourage the child to ask for help if required, 
and offer this help only after being requested. Don’t give too much assistance to the child – she can probably do more than you think she can!
37