	The child may have particular likes or dislikes, or things he is afraid of. They may 
be rational (eg. a particular preference for cricket or football), or they may appear irrational to you (for example a dislike of being touched, or an obsession with a favourite toy). Some children have a particular preference for routines, in which 
case you should try to establish a pattern or ritual during the play session. It’s 
particularly important to avoid anything that is likely to disturb, frighten or annoy the child. 
	If the child becomes over-excited, give him some ‘time out’ to cool down.
	Some children with mental disability can exhibit behaviour that is anti-social, eg. not sharing play equipment, not taking turns, or arguing. Monitor the child’s interactions with other children to check for such behaviour, and take appropriate disciplinary action where necessary.
5. Physical impairment
Many of the issues related to children with physical impairments are covered in a later section on adaptations (eg. of equipment, space, rules, etc). Additional issues to consider with children with physical impairments are:
	Warm-up and stretching is particularly important for children with physical impairments. For children with spasticity (eg. most children with CP), a period of relaxation at the start of the games session will probably produce better performances. A child may need assistance in warm-up and stretching exercises, 
eg. helping to lift her arms or to bend her wrists.
	Also for children with spasticity, avoid fear, excitement, tiredness and loud noises 
during the play session, as this can provoke a ‘startle reflex’ in which the child loses grasp and posture.
	For children who use mobility aids (eg. prostheses, orthoses, crutches and wheelchairs), find out (in discussion with the child) which is the most comfortable way for the child to take part in the game. For example the child may prefer to play with or without her orthosis. Or she may prefer to play using a crutch instead of his/
her prosthesis, depending on the nature of the game.
	Because children with mobility difficulties can be slower than other children, select 
sports and games where fast movement is not required, or adapt games to allow for players of different speeds to play together equally and fairly. 
	Reduce the duration of the play session, according to the child’s ability, and allow more breaks if necessary.
	Be observant for signs of tiredness and watch for accidents.
	Allow more time where necessary for slower children.
Some conditions such as muscular dystrophy are progressive, ie. the child gradually loses muscle strength and function over time. Therefore activities will have to be 
gradually modified over a period of time to allow for this, eg. reducing the duration or 
intensity of the activity.
42