At project level, assessment can help to:
	plan the services and activities you will provide, to determine what resources 
(sports equipment, coaches, facilities, etc) you will require. For example collectively considering all the individual assessments you have carried out will tell you if you have enough people with the compatible impairments and the interest to form a 
team, eg. in sitting volleyball or wheelchair basketball; if not you will perhaps need 
to focus on individual sports such as badminton or table tennis.
	monitor and evaluate the outcomes of your work. For example, if you are a PE teacher you might be interested in knowing how the fitness levels or sports skills of your children are increasing thanks to your coaching. Or you may be interested in finding out about the psychological or social changes in the children you’re 
working with, as a result of their participation in your project. Demonstrating such 
changes begins with conducting an assessment.
Depending on how formalised your sports/games activities are, you may need to conduct a written assessment (and therefore developing an assessment form is a good idea – see appendix 2 for examples), or if you are working in sport and leisure informally at community level, a verbal discussion with the children (and parents) is probably enough. However you conduct an assessment, the kinds of information you need are as follows:
1. About the child’s impairment
	What type of impairment does the child have? Is it from birth or acquired?
	What is the cause?
	What medical/rehabilitation services has the child received?
	Is the child taking any medication?
	Has the child received any advice from a medical professional concerning his participation/non-participation in physical activity? 
	Is the impairment progressive (is it getting more severe over time)?
	Does the child have a mobility aid (wheelchair/crutch/prostheses/orthosis/etc)? If so what condition is it in? If the child does not have a mobility aid, does he need one?
	Are there any medical risks in the child participating in sport (eg. bedsores, which could be exacerbated by physical activity)?
The assessment should also cover the child’s physical abilities. The complexity of this will depend on whether or not you have access to a professional such as a physiotherapist. A 
physiotherapist will be able to conduct an assessment including, for example, the child’s 
muscle strength, range of motion, posture, hand function, spasticity, etc. If you don’t have access to such a professional, you should nevertheless be able to describe the child’s physical abilities, eg. in terms of arm and leg function, ability to walk, run, etc, level of comprehension/understanding (eg. for children with hearing impairment or intellectual impairment), etc, as these will influence what sport and play activities the child can and can’t do, and also highlight any potential risks.
35