Remember also that children are free to make their own choices and decisions, eg. 
about what games they take part in, or when they need to stop and take a break, although the coach or play leader may need to take a more controlling attitude when it comes to health and safety issues.
4. Remember safety – safety is of paramount importance for obvious reasons. Chapter 
6 deals with health and safety in greater detail. Actual injuries caused by accident are obviously to be avoided, but even the fear of accidents can have a negative impact upon a child. If a child starts to associate PE or sport with pain, fear or risk, it is likely that he will start to find excuses to be absent in future. The child must not only be safe 
but also feel safe at all times.
5. Allow sufficient time – be patient! Children with intellectual impairment may need 
more time to understand an instruction, so you may have to repeat several times. Children with intellectual impairment and mobility difficulties will need more time to complete a physical task. Make sure that the other children in the group are also patient and understanding of the child’s needs.
Prior to a PE lesson/games session, you must also allow a sufficient amount of your 
time, eg. for planning the session. With a child with a disability, you may need more 
time to plan an adaptation to the activity, or to prepare/make/buy an adapted piece of 
sports equipment, as shown in the example below.
Experience from Sports For All project:  
adapting table tennis for a boy with visually impairment
The Sports For All project was providing sports practice to youth with physical impairments every Sunday in Vavuniya, and on one particular Sunday a young man turned up with his friend who was blind. The activity that week was table tennis. This set the project team to start thinking about adapting table tennis so that a person with 
visual impairment could take part.
It was decided to develop a game where a disc was pushed back and forth across the 
table-tennis table, but the disc would need to have a sound inside it. But the staff were faced with various questions: what kind of disc to use? What kind of noise-making device to put inside it?
For the disc, it was found that a coffee-jar lid was a suitable size and weight, and 
its surface was smooth enough to slide over the table-top. But the noise-making 
device was more difficult. The staff bought some children’s noise-making toys and tried to extract the sound device from them, but this didn’t work. They searched for a very small, cheap mobile phone or radio which could be placed inside, but without success. Finally, one staff-member was able to find an electronics shop in Colombo which sold small electronic buzzers. A local 
electrician was found who could 
solder this inside the coffee-jar lid, and bingo! A piece of equipment for an adapted table-top game for people with visual impairment was created!
38