Finally this chapter will focus on you , the play leader/PE teacher. What are the 
essential qualities you should have to work with children of mixed abilities in play 
and sport? The chapter will also give some tips to help you improve your play/coaching 
session, to make them more effective and more enjoyable for all children, not just for those with a disability.
First of all, though, this chapter will discuss assessment, which is vital before planning 
or conducting any play or sports activities with children with disabilities, or indeed any 
children.
Assessment
Assessment can help you to answer questions such as:
	What sports and games should I provide to my group of children, including those 
with disabilities?
	Are there any sports or activities that the child should definitely not be involved in?
	How is participating in sport and play benefiting this child?
These first two questions are important for all sports and play sessions, whereas the third is most important if you are working in a project where monitoring and evaluation is required.
Assessment is an activity to help your sport or play programme at both the individual 
and the project level. At the individual level, assessment is used to:
	make choices and decisions about which sports and activities are suitable for each child. For many children with disabilities, this is simply a matter of the child’s particular preferences and interests. However for children with more severe or complex impairments, it is also based on the child’s capacities and abilities, which 
may be affected as a result of her impairment. There may also be medical reasons 
why it is inadvisable to take part in certain activities on health grounds.  
	identify the children’s needs for additional support – rehabilitation equipment, adapted sports equipment, adapted games/methodology, staffing support, etc. You need in-depth knowledge and understanding about the children with disabilities in your group, so that you can effectively involve them in your play 
activities, and so that you can be aware of any health and safety risks – this process 
of knowing their needs and situation starts with assessment.
	in competitive disability sport, assessment is called classification, and is used to 
categorise athletes with the same type of impairment. It is important to group athletes with the same or very similar levels of impairment together in the same race or event, to ensure fairness.
34