6. Be aware of specific ‘watchpoints’ for each child – you need to know about any 
particular health issue related to each individual child, eg. epilepsy, heart condition, etc. Also, make sure you get to know individual children’s likes, dislikes, preferences, etc, in sport and games, especially for children with intellectual impairment or behavioural 
problems (see below under ‘impairment-specific tips’).
7. Check the child’s understanding – ensure that the child knows exactly what is 
expected of her, eg. after giving instructions or explaining the rules of  a game. For example you can ask the child questions about your instruction: ‘what colour team are you? When I count to three, what do you have to do?’ . Children with intellectual impairment or hearing impairment may have particular difficulty in understanding your instructions.
8. Appreciate the child’s energy expenditure – recognise that for children with 
physical impairments, walking, or moving in a wheelchair expends a considerable amount of energy and they are likely to get more tired than other children. Therefore adapt the tasks you give to the child accordingly.
9. Use a variety of teaching styles – depending on the type of disability in your 
group, you may need to use visual demonstrations and manual guidance as well as 
verbal instructions.
10. Practice close observation – this will help you to analyse the child’s response to 
a given task and make adjustments accordingly. For example observing how a child shoots in basketball will enable you to modify the task in future, eg. reducing the distance, the height of the hoop, or the type of ball. Close observation is also key in spotting any risks or dangers during the coaching/play session, to prevent accidents or 
health-related problems.
Impairment-specific tips
These guidelines are for if you have a child with a particular type of impairment in 
your coaching/play session. It’s important before any session that you know about any child with a disability in the group, so that you are able to take any necessary measures. This involves assessment of the child as discussed earlier.
These tips are about ensuring the quality of the child with disability’s participation 
during the coaching/play session, and her enjoyment. For health and safety issues related to specific impairments, please see chapter 6.
1. Hearing impairment/speaking impairment
	When giving instructions, ensure that any child with hearing impairment is standing near the front of group, where she is more likely to be able to hear you or to read your lips (if the child is able to lip-read).
	Speak clearly and loudly, while at the same time maintaining normal mouth movements. Over-stressing words in speech makes lip-reading difficult.Using written 
instructions and visual 
diagrams in cricket 
coaching with deaf 
youth
39