Examples are archery and ten-
pin bowling (shown here). Archery is a recognised Para 
Sport in Sri Lanka and is promoted 
by the National Paralympic Committee. 
More examples of target sports (eg. boccia and darts) are given in the next chapter.
Cooperative games – such games 
emphasise cooperation between children rather than competition (eg. parachute games) – see next chapter.
It’s worth also mentioning games or activities which are best avoided if you have a 
mixed-ability group. Avoid elimination games, where children are ‘out’ , as it will usually be the child with disability who is ‘out’ first (unless you have introduced some compensatory rule to give him an extra chance). And avoid children choosing their own teams, as this will usually result in the child with disability being left last which can be damaging to his self-esteem if it happens regularly. Use other methods (eg. random selection, numbering off) to form teams.
Rule adaptations- You can adapt the rules of a game to give advantages/disadvantages 
to players of different abilities, to ‘level the playing field’ . Of course these adaptations may not be able to be carried over into formalised tournaments which are played according to standard rules, but in practice sessions and PE you can be as imaginative as you want!
Here are some examples of rule changes in games and sports. The next chapter will 
give many more examples of how rule-changes can be applied to various games.
	Modifying the scoring system – eg. in football, hitting the sides of the net or the 
post also count as a goal for a less able child; in basketball, hitting the back-board (or even the post) counts as a goal.
	Use of substitutes – eg. teams are required to play all their substitutes for a certain period of time, including players with disabilities.
	Out-of play rule – waive it for children with disabilities if have they difficulties with ball control, eg. in football, netball and basketball. Or waive the handball rule for 
children who need to use their hands as well as their feet in ball control.
	 Rules to reduce physical 
contact – in rugby, for example, there are variants such as touch rugby and tag rugby, where players do not have 
to tackle. In touch rugby, touching a 
person is a substitute for a tackle. In tag rugby, players wear two tags on either side of their shorts. Players make a ‘tackle’ by removing one tag from another player and shouting ‘tag. ’Tag rugby in India
46