particular need for children to be quiet when you are giving instructions 
in indoor halls, if you have a child with hearing impairment present.
	Playing areas should be well marked so they are visible to children with visual impairment, eg. using coloured cones or marker saucers, or chunnam powder. Bright colours also make the game more attractive and interesting to children with learning difficulties. Walkways (eg. access 
paths to sports grounds) should also be well marked so they are easily 
visible.
Another way of adapting the playing ground to enable inclusion is by introducing zoning. This is a form of rule-change (see below). You can introduce areas 
of the playing area where only the child with disability can play. For example in football, you can demarcate an area (eg. a defined width of the midfield area, or the penalty box) where only players with disability can play. This means that the players with disability are more involved in the game, eg. in passing and scoring. You can introduce similar zones in netball or basketball, for example.
	For some people with disabilities, eg. wheelchair-users, toileting can be a particular challenge; they will be reluctant to take part in sports activities especially if they are of long duration, or far from home, if there are no toileting facilities at the sports venue. Therefore you need to ensure that accessible toilets are available.
	Changing facilities may be required at the sports event, especially to enable the participation of girls. These may also need to be accessible, eg. if wheelchair-users are taking part.
	Children may need help travelling to and from the sports venue, eg. pushing his wheelchair, giving him a lift on a bicycle, or helping him on and off of buses. You need to ensure that someone (a friend or family member) is available to provide this help.
Adapt the Task
Give children choices about what activities they would like to do, and ensure that some options are more suitable for children with disabilities. Some games, sports and activities which may be particularly suitable for children with disabilities are as follows:
Individual games/activities – in activities where there is no direct 
competition/comparison between the child with disability and other children, it is easier for the child to find his own level and go at his own pace. For example, athletics, dance, yoga, aerobics, gymnastics and circuit training. Team sports can be adapted to become more individualised activities, eg. ‘Football Skills’ and Cricket Skills’ (see next chapter).
Target games – these require 
less mobility and less physical contact than many other games and sports, but develop other skills such as accuracy and coordination. The yellow line on this 
access ramp to a latrine 
helps to guide a person 
with visual impairment
        Yoga and 
aerobics – two 
individualised 
activities suitable for 
a mixed-ability group
45