pass the ball to him. Or in volleyball, all serves have to be taken by 
the child with disability. It’s important to find a role for each child in the game, regardless of his disability, even if this is refereeing or keeping the score.
	 making sure that there is adequate communication between 
the child with a disability and other players. For example you may need to develop a system of gestures or signs to help children communicate with a child who is deaf.
	have assistants to provide support to the child with disability to enable her to achieve the task. This might be peer support (the child’s friend, or another child), a 
parent or sibling, or staff/volunteers. Here are some examples of 
support during play and sport:
You also need to consider your own teaching/coaching/instructional style. As well as 
the aspects mentioned earlier, related to children with specific impairments, be aware 
of the following three principles of teaching:
1. Success-based teaching - create situations adapted to the child’s abilities so she 
can succeed at the task. Avoid obstacles that might set the stage for failure and lead to disappointment and frustration. 
2. Personalised teaching – remember that each child is unique! Think of his abilities 
and potential! Listen to and observe him, to get a full understanding of his environment, 
needs, desires and resources. Also think of the child’s interpersonal encounters with other children – help to foster links between children so they can offer each other mutual help.
3. Differentiated teaching – use a wide range of teaching and learning methods 
and processes. Vary your communication methods (written, demonstration, verbal, 
pictures, etc). Remember the adaptations that are possible under STEP . 
Critically appraise yourself and monitor your own performance – for example when 
making verbal communication, ask yourself ‘can everyone hear me/see me? Am I speaking loud enough? Too fast? Has everyone understood me, or do I need to repeat the message? Should I ask the children questions to check their understanding?’ Seek Helping a youth with 
learning difficulty during a 
parachute sessionAn assistant giving extra 
stability during discus 
throwDeaf and hearing teams 
playing volleyball together, 
with a hearing referee 
(communication using 
gesture)
50