A good coach is one 
who builds children’s 
confidenceBeing a good play leader/coach
The previous section stressed that you as play leader or coach need to be mindful of 
your instructional or coaching style. But more widely than this, you have to consider your overall character and attitude during your play/coaching session. Yo u  are 
responsible for creating the atmosphere in the group among the children and youth. 
The participants look to you to create a welcoming, friendly, fun and safe environment. 
Remember, chapter 3 talked about the possible negative effects of sport on children and youth – the positive benefits of sport and play are not automatic. If the play/coaching session is poorly managed it can actually lead to the child having a greater feeling of worthlessness, or the child being more socially excluded. Children may respond to a poor play/coaching session by absenting themselves from your session, abandoning sport, and telling other children not to go either to the session!
With this in mind, it’s therefore important to examine what are the qualities of a good 
play leader/coach?
Qualities of a good play leader/coach
Friendly – the play leader has to welcome the children to the session. Ideally the play leader should have arrived at the venue ahead of time and be there to talk to the children as they arrive, with a smile, and take time to get to know them, to know their names, talk about their lives, their interests. This helps to create an environment in 
which the child feels valued and safe.
Respected – the play leader’s own life should reflect the values of sport, ie. she should 
live a healthy lifestyle and promote values of good sportsmanship. She should act as a role model who the children can look up to and follow.
Fair – especially in competitive sport, the play leader must be, and must be seen to be, 
impartial at all times, dealing with all teams and all players equally and fairly.
Knowledgeable about games/sports – the play leader needs to have sufficient 
knowledge about the games and sports he is giving instructions in. This is especially important when introducing new games or new rules, to allow for the inclusion of children with disabilities. Preparing beforehand can help to give you confidence. Children will notice if you are lacking in confidence when leading the games/play session and this will affect their enjoyment of the session.
Encourager – in your group you are likely to have children who are shy or withdrawn, eg. children who have come for the first time and don’t know anybody else, or children with low self-esteem, who are afraid of new experiences and feel will fail at anything they try. This may be a child with disability, or it could be any other child who isn’t particularly ‘sporty. ’ It’s your job to build their sense of 
confidence, to help them to try things they may have 
never tried before, to experience success, to make friends, and to discover enjoyment through participation in play and sport.
52