Space
Task
EquipmentPeopleAdapting Sport and Games
The previous chapter introduced the terms adapted sport and adapted physical 
activity. Just to recap, the purpose of adaptation is either to introduce extra challenges for more able players or to make the activity easier for less able players, to enable a group of mixed abilities to play together. But what can we adapt? The Inclusion 
Spectrum (Stevenson and Black, 2011), introduced earlier in this manual, classes 
adaptations using the acronym STEP:
Within any given game or sport, there is plenty of scope for how you can introduce 
adaptations, to give advantages or disadvantages to players of different abilities – the only limit is your creativity!
Adapt the Space
	Playing areas can be made smaller to reduce the amount of mobility required for people with mobility impairments, eg. for badminton, volleyball, football, etc. For example wheelchair badminton is played on only half the court, as it is very difficult for a wheelchair-user to cover the entire court.
	Playing surfaces should be as level as possible, so that they are accessible to children with physical impairments. Can you imagine how difficult it is, for example, to push 
a wheelchair on a bumpy sports ground? Mud or long grass can also be 
a hindrance to mobility. 
Make sure sports grounds are clear of obstacles and rubbish (eg. 
broken glass, stones, etc), so that they are accessible to people with 
visual impairments.
	 Indoor sports halls can present particular difficulties for 
children with disabilities. Ensure that lighting is sufficient for children 
with visual impairments to see. Children with hearing impairment 
also need good lighting, especially if they can lip-read. Indoor sports 
halls also frequently suffer from poor acoustics, eg. echoes, which 
present difficulty for children with hearing impairment, especially 
when the hall is crowded with a lot of noisy children! There is Wheelchair badminton  
uses only half the normal 
court size
44