as sitting throwball and sitting volleyball in particular need a 
low net. The official height for the net in sitting volleyball is 1.15 m for men and 1 m for women, compared to 2.43m for men and 2.24 m for women in standing volleyball.
	Bats and racquets – bats (eg. cricket bats) and racquets (eg. in badminton and tennis) should be suitable for the child’s age, size and strength. 
For children with weak hand-grip, 
you can improvise a strap to help the 
child to hold the bat/racquet. In cricket, 
a tennis racquet can be substituted for 
a cricket bat, as it is lighter, it has a larger surface 
area (and therefore easier to hit the ball) and gives 
more bounce to the ball.
	 Table tennis tables should be adapted for 
wheelchair-users; on many tables the 
supporting post under the table is too close to the edge of the table meaning 
that a wheelchair-user’s legs cannot fit under it. The 
post should be a minimum of 40 cm from the edge of the table. 
	Use sports equipment with bright colours, to help increase their visibility for children with visual impairment, and to attract the 
attention of children with learning difficulties. Many items of sports and play equipment are already available in bright colours 
(eg. balls, Frisbees, cones, hoops, etc); others can be painted, eg. 
blind cricket is a recognised sport in Sri Lanka and uses stumps painted in luminous colours.
	Specialised sports and play equipment, suitable for children 
with disabilities, may be available, or if not it may be possible to improvise using materials which are available locally. For example play parachutes (see next chapter) are brightly coloured and 
stimulating to all children including those with disabilities, and 
they require little physical mobility. Catch pads consist of Velcro pads and special balls which stick to the pad, and are useful for children who have difficulty catching, eg. children with poor hand-eye coordination or poor hand function. Junior javelins are light-
weight, foam javelins which young children or children with particular weak upper body strength can use to develop the skills of throwing.
	In disability sport, some adapted aids may be required, for 
example in athletics wheelchair-users can participate in throwing events using a special throwing chair, to give the required support: (see left)
Remember that children with disabilities may need particular 
equipment related to their impairment. The child may require mobility aids such as a wheelchair, a crutch, a prosthetic or orthotic. Catch pad
Junior javelinTabletennis table with 
adapted support post
England v Australia in the 
Blind Cricket Twenty20 
World Cup in 2012. Sri 
Lanka came third
48