General tips on interacting with people with disabilities
Here are some general tips on social interaction with people with disabilities, not 
just in sport and play but in everyday life.
 Ask before you assist
 Don’t assume all people with disabilities need help. Many people are able to move around independently. But if they do need assistance then check how to support them before you do so. They are usually the best person to ask how to go about this.
 Be sensitive about physical contact
 As with other people, be aware of dignity so don’t grab or touch people with disabilities without their permission. Do not grab hold of wheelchairs and other equipment they use without checking with the person first. 
 As much as possible speak directly to the person with disabilities
 Remember even if people cannot speak they can still communicate in other ways. While some people rely on support persons to assist them with such, don’t assume they cannot speak for themselves and make useful contributions and choices
 Don’t make assumptions
 People with disabilities are the best judge of what they can or cannot do. Don’t make decisions for them about participating in any activity; always seek their preferences.
 Identify yourself before you make physical contact with a person 
with visual impairment
 Explain your intentions if your assisting someone with a sight impairment for example when leading them to an exit of a building. Also make sure you introduce yourself before speaking with a person with visual impairment, and make sure you tell them when leaving the conversation.
 If you are giving directions to people with vision impairment, give 
specific non visual information
 Make sure any directions given rely on non visual clues (e.g. instead of ‘turn right at the blue building’ , say, “
Walk  forward to the end of this aisle and make a full 
right.”1
1 Disability Inclusive Community Based Disaster Risk Management: A toolkit for practice in South Asia, 
Handicap International 2012, www.disabilityindrr.org
43