You should check that this aid is in a good state of repair, safe to use, and that it is right 
size for the child – children who are growing will outgrow their mobility aid. Children with hearing impairment may use a hearing aid, while children with visual impairment may use glasses or a white cane. For all these adaptive aids, it may or may not be 
advisable for the child to use the aid during the sports/play session depending on the 
nature of the physical activity. For example it may be advisable for children not to wear glasses during highly physical, contact sports. A child may be able to use a crutch in some games but not in others. You should make a decision based on your observations and in discussions with the child, but remember that safety is of paramount importance.
Adapt the People
‘People’ refers to both players and instructors (ie. the teacher, coach or play leader). You can adapt the way children play and also adapt the way you yourself teach.
Concerning the other children and youth in the group, the most important point is 
to foster an inclusive atmosphere in the group, so that they understand and accept 
the child with a disability. If the other children do not know the child with disability, you may need to sensitively explain to them about her disability – about what she can and can’t do, and about any potential risks (eg. if she has epilepsy, or if she has to avoid excessive physical contact). Make sure you emphasise the positives, and also respect the child’s privacy by not disclosing unnecessary information. During play/sport sessions, be aware of the possibility of any discriminatory practice taking place, for example the child being left out of activities (or opting out himself), name-calling, 
bullying, etc.
You can also adapt the way that children play together; by for example:
	dividing the children into smaller groups. In small-team sports, eg. 5-a-side football, 
each child can play a more active role in the team than in the full-team version of the sport. Smaller groups also allow staff to give more individual attention to each child’s special needs. You might divide the groups according to abilities, for 
example so that you can focus on developing a particular skill (eg. batting) with 
children of a similar ability. However this segregation should not be for long and should not be a regular part of your play/coaching sessions.
	having unequal teams, based on parity of ability rather than numerical parity. A larger team, eg. in football, tug-of-war, etc, would have more people with disabilities. In badminton, as well as singles and doubles, you could have teams of three, 
for example – one player without disability to support two 
players with disability.
	changing the rules about how players play, eg. in football, removing the goal-keepers in football to make scoring easier. In cricket you can allow a ‘runner’ – a player who runs for a child with disability when he is batting.
	another possible rule-change is to give specific roles to the team member who has a disability. For example in basketball, having a rule that only the child with disability is allowed to shoot at the hoop – all other members of the team have to Four people per team in 
badminton - two people 
without disabilities to 
support two wheelchair 
users
49