Rules to enforce participation of a child with a disability – for example in volleyball, the 
child with a disability must have been involved in the volley for the point to count, or in football, the child with disability must have touched the ball in the build-up to a goal.
	Change the distance that players play from. For example in frisbee games, more able players have to pass the frisbee a greater distance than less able players. In volleyball, throwball or tennikoit, allow a less able or younger child to serve from a shorter distance rather than from the normal serving line.
	Change the way individuals execute a given task in the game – for example some children are allowed to catch/throw one-handed and others two-handed; or some children are allowed to run, while others must walk, or hop.
	Give extra ‘lives’ to children with disabilities before they are ‘out’ . Eg. in dodgeball the child can be hit three times before being ‘out’ .
When making adaptations to a game or sport, remember that the purpose of 
adaptation is to create equal opportunity and a level playing field – it should not 
create an unfair advantage for any person. A basic principle of sport is that it should be fair – making adaptations which are perceived to give the child with disability an 
unfair advantage may be seen as unsporting or as patronising to the child, which can cultivate attitudes towards disability which are not conducive to inclusion.
Another point to bear in mind is that any adaptation made should maintain the basic 
integrity of the game – the basic essence or goal of the game should be unchanged. 
Altering the game to the extent that it is scarcely recognised as, say football or cricket, 
may be unsatisfying to the whole group, including the child with disability herself.
Adapt the  Equipment
Special, adapted play equipment can be purchased, but there’s also a lot you can do to adapt the sports and play equipment you use. Or you can also make your own equipment!
	Balls – it’s important in ball games to use balls which are non-threatening to the child – children can be fearful when faced with a fast-moving, heavy ball. Many sports accidents happen with balls, even among children without disabilities. 
Therefore you should experiment with ball of different sizes, 
weights, colours and textures. Balls which are larger, lighter, softer, more textured and more brightly-coloured are easier to throw, catch and track while in motion. Beach balls and foam balls are particularly suitable, or tactile inflatable balls. Balloons can also be used in many games, although outdoors their motion can be unpredictable in windy conditions. Beanbags are a good substitute for balls in catching games because they don’t bounce.
	Lower nets – in net games such as badminton, volleyball, sitting volleyball, throwball and tennikoit, lower the height of the net according to the age and ability of the children. Sitting sports such Beach 
balls 
are great 
fun!
Sitting beach volleyball – adapted net (lower), and appropriate playing surface 
(sand – to reduce injury) 47