V
Foreword
I am very pleased to present to you a product of our Sport for All project, a Training Manual on better 
inclusion of children and youth disabilities within sport. 
This training manual “Sport and Play for All” provides tips, guidance and advice on disability and 
inclusion, with the primary aim of enhancing users’ knowledge and practice on inclusion. It brings 
together many training materials used during the Sports for All Project in Sri Lanka, including materials on disability, social inclusion and models of inclusive sport. It features many games and sports which have been field tested and adapted to enable children with disabilities to participate. 
HI first started project activity in Sri Lanka on inclusive sport in May 2011, there were relatively few 
initiatives aimed at promoting inclusive sport within the country. In schools, children with mild impairments were naturally included in mainstream PE lessons and sport competitions, but children 
with more severe disabilities tended to be segregated. The National Paralympics Committee’s 
programmes of disability sports were also conducted separately from mainstream sports events. Baseline surveying by HI in 2011 found that more than a quarter of youth and children with disabilities in Vavuniya played sport less than once a month, and where sport opportunities are provided to persons with disabilities, it was frequently through segregated, disability only events. Under the Ministry of Sport, government Sports Officers and coaches have been appointed to all districts and divisions, and are well trained in mainstream sport, but have received no training on adapted sport to include people with disabilities. 
Keeping these gaps in mind, the Sport for All project aimed to target children and youth with 
disabilities, and the wider community, to improve quality of life through sport. For the wider community the project aimed to increase awareness and understanding about disability, by bringing children and youth together. Main achievements of the project I wish to highlight includes the provision of people with disabilities with opportunities to regularly play sport in Vavuniya, the support to them to form their own sports club, and the facilitation of competition at national level. 
At the same time, teachers and community workers were made more aware of disability, to enable 
them to better include children and youth with disabilities in their activities. 
I hope that, through this manual, there will be continuous reinforcement of the training that the 
project has already provided in Vavuniya, and extension of awareness throughout Sri Lanka. Since the manual will be available electronically to practitioners elsewhere in the world as well, I hope it helps improve practice on including children and youth with disabilities in sport and leisure. 
Thanks go to the European Union for funding the project and publication of this training manual. I 
would like to express my gratitude to the Sport for All project team at HI Sri Lanka, with particular thanks to the project manager for writing this manual, and HI’s Technical Resources Division, who provided ongoing support, advice and feedback throughout the production process. Without their dedication and enthusiasm this manual would not have been possible. 
Best Regards
 
 
Gilles Nouzies  
Country Director  
Handicap International Sri Lanka
V