Good implementation of games/activities
Now the session has started and the games are underway. There are many things to 
remember, most of which have already been covered in this manual:
	Make sure your instructions are clear – children like to be given clear guidance on what to do, and they will feel confused and possible unsafe if they get insufficient guidance from their leader.  Be aware of the communication difficulties of children 
with disabilities as discussed earlier.
Make sure you are able to handle the number of children present 
– that you have enough equipment for the game and that you have enough adults to provide supervision. If there is insufficient equipment some children may not be able to fully participate and will be left standing on the sidelines. Having children with disabilities in the group will probably mean you will need extra assistance from 
adults, or seek peer assistance from other children.
	Use of time – keep the children engaged. Some children have short attention 
spans, eg. children with learning difficulties, and others are easily distracted. If you are slow in organising and conducting the various activities in the session, children may get bored, resulting in their lower satisfaction and possible risks as they find 
other ways to entertain themselves outside of your supervision.
	Be flexible and responsive – when things don’t go according to plan, have an 
alternative plan and use it!
	Think about the sequence of games and the energy expenditure of the children – if you have a very high-energy or high-excitement activity, it should be followed by a rest period or a slower game. Try to taper games so that you end with a low-energy game.
	Discipline – promote good behaviour among the children at all times. Watch out for any behavioural problems such as fighting, bullying, over-excitement, name-calling, misuse of sports equipment, etc, and take appropriate disciplinary action.
	Make sure that all games and activities are appropriate for children’s age, gender and ability.A well-organised 
play session with 
adequate adult 
supervision
55