A good coach is a 
listening coachListener – you should always be open to 
ideas, from children or from your colleagues, 
about improving your play/coaching sessions. It’s good practice to ask children at 
the end of a session, ‘what did you think of the 
session today?’ and as well as listening to their feedback, acting on it! Was it too easy/too difficult, too long, was the sports equipment sufficient and appropriate, did they have fun?
Observant – this manual has mentioned 
observation several times – to help in 
assessing the child’s abilities, to ensure that tasks you give the child are appropriate, to ensure good interpersonal relations between the children, to be vigilant for risks and accidents…being observant is a key skill for a play leader/coach, and one that is not easy to practice when you are trying to watch what 30 excited children over a large play area are doing!
Good communicator – the play leader has to be able to communicate clearly with all 
children, but also (as discussed earlier) be able to adapt his communication methods to meet the needs of each individual child.
Flexible – when working with children and youth, especially with larger groups, you 
have to be prepared for the unexpected: far more (or fewer) children you planned 
for turn up at your play session; the footballs you planned to use are all deflated and 
there’s no pump; the game you planned to introduce fell flat because it wasn’t aimed at the right age-group; a new child with a severe disability unexpectedly turns up and you have no idea how the child can be involved in the game you’d planned; it’s raining so an outdoor play session has to become an indoor play session…you have to be able to improvise and have a ‘plan B’ for when things don’t go according to plan.
Well-organised – although it’s good to be flexible and plan for the unexpected, 
it’s also good to be well-organised! Children can get bored easily (or distracted and 
start misbehaving), if you are disorganised and you appear to not know what you are doing during the session. You need to think before the play session and ask yourself a series of questions: what games will I do? What equipment will I need? Where will the session take place and is the venue suitable? How many children are expected? What children with special needs are likely to be there and what measures do I need to take concerning them? Etc.
53