What makes a successful, inclusive play/coaching  
session?
Finally for this chapter, now that we have established what the ideal play leader/coach 
should be like, here are a few practical tips on what the ideal inclusive play/coaching session should look like! These tips are divided into logical sections – before the play session, at the beginning of the session, during the session, and at the end of the 
session.
Good preparation
Think before the play session – what activities (warm-ups, games, sports, etc) are you 
going to do? What equipment do you need for these? It’s very easy to forget something! For example you are planning a carom tournament and you forget the disc, or you’re planning a game of volleyball and there’s no pump and the ball is flat. There should be 
enough equipment for the number of children you are expecting – it can be boring for 
children if there is inadequate equipment and children have to stand around waiting for their turn. 
Have you thought about any adaptations you might need to introduce (special 
equipment, rule adaptation, peer support, etc) during the game?
How many children do you expect to come to the session? Consider your child/
staff ratio – how many children per responsible adult (staff, volunteers, parents, etc). 
For younger children, or when there are children with more severe disabilities, it’s important to have adequate adults present. This is to ensure adequate supervision and prevent accidents/injuries, as well as to ensure the quality of the session. Large groups of children need adequate numbers of adults, to divide into smaller groups, to give instructions, to lead the games, referee, keep scores, etc etc.
Are the facilities suitable? Is the playing ground accessible, are toilet and changing 
facilities as adequate and accessible as possible?
Good opening
As the children arrive at the session, it’s good if the play leader is already there, to 
welcome the children and to have some time for informal conversations with them before the session starts. This can help develop trust with them to encourage them to continually attend the session.
Start the play/coaching session with some warm-up activities. Especially for young children, these should be play/fun-based and not just a series of formal stretching exercises. For children’s clubs, you may want to also have an ice-breaker activity at the start of the session, especially if there are new children present. Your children’s club may have an opening ceremony, eg. a song, raising a flag, a 
clapping game, or some other activity which builds the 
solidarity and sense of identity and belonging of the children.An enjoyable warm-up, 
team-building activity
54