2. Formal sports and games
2.1. Boccia
The sport of boccia was specifically developed for people with disabilities, in particular 
wheelchair-users. It is played in over 50 countries worldwide and since 1984 it has featured in the Paralympic Games. In the Paralympic Games, there are different classes of boccia for different degrees of disability. In some classes players are able to propel 
the balls by themselves by throwing or kicking, but people with more severe disabilities 
use a ramp or an adapted device strapped to their head.
Boccia can be an individual game or can be played in pairs or teams of four. People with and without disabilities can easily play together, either directly against each other or in mixed teams.
Equipment needed is a set of boccia balls which consists of 12 balls (6 
red and 6 blue), and a small white ball, the ‘jack’ , which is the target. 
Special boccia balls can be purchased, or you can improvise using locally available balls of two different colours.
Internationally, boccia is played on a smooth-surfaced court measuring 
12.5 m x 6 m.  However the size and the type of surface can be adapted 
– it can equally well be played on grass or on earth surfaces.
The aim is to score as many points as possible by placing your set of coloured balls 
closest to the white ‘jack’ ball.
	There are 2 teams (red and blue).
	In singles each player has 6 balls. In doubles each player has 3 balls.
The player can propel the ball by rolling, throwing or kicking the balls.
	 Singles and doubles games consist of 4 ‘ends’ . One ‘end’ consists of 
all 13 balls (6 red, 6 blue and 1 jack) being thrown onto the court.
	 Following the toss of a coin, the winning player/captain chooses to be 
red or blue.
	 A player from the red team starts the game by throwing the jack to start the first 
‘end’ , and also plays the first coloured ball. The jack must be thrown a minimum of 
3 metres.
	A player from the blue team then throws his ball.
	 The side to throw next will be the side which does not have the closest ball to the 
jack. A game official will assess which team will play next and will call out to the 
players, or show them using an indicator.
	Play continues in this way until both sides have thrown all of their balls.
	 If two or more balls of different colours are the same distance from the jack and 
there are no other balls closer, it is the side that threw last that must throw again.
 Once all the balls are played then that is the end of 1 ‘end’ .
	 The team whose ball is closest to the jack wins that ‘end’ . The team whose ball 
is closest to the jack scores points. The side with the ball closest to the jack will ©Spanish Paralympic Committee 
©WordPress.com
Paralympic boccia
80