frisbee without it touching the ground), the two partners sit on 
the ground. They are declared the winners, and the game ends.
Players are not allowed to cross the 5 metre line, or to catch the 
frisbee of another pair, or interfere with other players.
You can also play against the clock, eg. pairs have to complete as 
many passes as possible in one minute.Adaptations to help include children with disabilities might be to change the rules for 
more able players to make it more difficult for them, eg:
 players must not move their feet when making passes
 players must throw backhand
 only one-handed catching allowed
 players throw from 10 metres instead of  5 metres.
Frisbee raceA team race, where children from each team (eg. 6 children from each team) from a long line, each child 5 metres apart. Each child stands in a hoop and is not allowed to step outside of it. On the blow of a whistle, the child at one end of the line throws the frisbee to the next child in the line, who passes to the next, etc. The winning team is the team which passes the frisbee to the end of the line first.
Frisbee golf
A target game similar to real golf, although instead of balls and holes, it uses frisbees and hoops!
Set up a ‘golf course’ , consisting of any number 
of holes, eg. 6, 12, 18. Each ‘hole’ is at least 5 metres away from the previous one, and can be as much as 100 metres from the previous one if you want a long game! If the holes are very far apart, use a cone to indicate their position. It’s interesting to use a wide, open space in the countryside for this game (as long as it’s safe). The idea is to give the children exercise from hole to hole, as well as in actually throwing the frisbee.
Players start at the starting line and aim for the first hole, counting how many shots it takes to get the frisbee into the hoop. You can give a score-card to each child to record her score for each hole. The child repeats the process for each of the holes and then totals up her score for the whole course. Remind children to be honest in keeping their own scores! The winner is the child who has completed the course in the lowest number of shots!
Remind the children that the game is not a race – the winner is not the child 
who finishes first. Often it’s the child who is slowest, who has spent more time perfecting his aim, who wins!Frisbee passing
Frisbee race
Frisbee golf – can you 
score a ‘hole in one’?!
78