Start line
Finish 
zone15m
2mscore one point for each ball closer to the jack than the opponent’s 
closest ball to the jack.
	 If two or more balls of different colours are the same distance from 
the jack, each side will receive one point per jack.
	 Starting new ‘ends’ alternates between the red and the blue teams.
	 When ‘four ends’ are completed, the points scored on each end 
are added together and the side with higher total score is declared the winner.
2.2. Football Skills
Football Skills, and (related to this) Cricket Skills (2.3 below) are adapted versions of football and cricket which were developed by Special Olympics as an appropriate alternative for people with a fairly severe degree of learning difficulties who are unable to play in full versions of the sport. The two adapted versions employ standard football 
and cricket skills, but the games are shorter, more individualised and have less physical 
contact than the standard versions of the sport.
Materials
 Cones
 Footballs
 Stop-watch
 Chunnum 
powder or 
polythene
How to play
Children will compete in two different football skills – dribbling and run and kick. 
Their scores from both skills will be added together to give the child’s final score. The final scores of all the children in one team will be added together to give a final team score. The team with the most points wins.
Skill 1: Dribbling - five cones are arranged in a lane 2m wide and 15m 
long (see diagram). On the whistle, the player dribbles the ball around 
the cones from the starting line to the finish zone (marked with cones or 
chunnum powder), staying inside the marked lane. The clock is stopped when both the player and the ball are stopped inside the finish zone. If the player overshoots the finish zone, he must dribble it back in to finish.
Scoring: the time (in seconds) elapsed while the player is dribbling is 
converted into points using a table developed by the judge. An example is 
given below, but this can be adapted according to the ability of the players. 
Five points are deducted each time the ball runs over the sidelines of the lane or if a player touches the ball with his hands.Time Points
5–10 seconds 50 points
11–15 seconds 45 points
16–20 seconds 40 points
21–25 seconds 35 points
26–30 seconds 30 points
31–35 seconds 25 points
36–40 seconds 20 points
41 seconds or more 15 pointsBoccia in Vavuniya
81