 Give the children two beanbags each. Call out two parts of the body, eg, ‘left hand 
and right shoulder, ’ or ‘right ankle and head’ , and all the children have to balance their beanbags on these two parts of the body.
 Have a beanbag relay race – in teams, children walk a leg of the relay balancing a beanbag on their heads, or their shoulders, for example.
Score an ‘own goal’
 Children toss the bean bag in the air, and make a ‘hoop’ with their arms and hands; ‘catch’ the bean bag in their hoop as it falls.
Body catch
 Children toss the beanbag in the air and catch it on part of their body (for example, bending forward and catching it on their back); players who have mobility impairments can try catching the beanbag on the back of an out-stretched arm or leg or on their lap.
Toss and catch
 Start by passing the bean bag from hand to hand; 
 Progress to tossing and catching the bean bag; low catches with both hands and then higher and one hand if possible;
 Toss clap and catch (how many claps can the child do?);
 Toss the bean bag in the air with one or two hands, turn around and catch it;
 Toss and catch it with one hand under the leg;
etc.
(adapted from TOP Sportability, 2012)
1.6.2. Frisbees
Frisbees are a fairly novel piece of sports equipment which are available in Sri Lanka but not commonly used in the North. Children are attracted to them because of their bright colour and smooth motion through the air. They are relatively easy for children to track because of their colour and slow motion. They can be used in various inclusive 
games involving catching, throwing and aiming, as follows:
Frisbee passing
Any even  number of players can play. Players form pairs and have one frisbee per pair. 
Each pair of players is competing against the other pairs. 
Players line up facing each other, standing 5 metres apart, behind two lines (eg. 
marked by marker saucers). On the sound of a whistle all the people with frisbees throw them to their partners. Each partner tries to catch the frisbee without it touching the ground. When a pair completes 10 passes successfully (ie. throws and catches the 
77