	divide the children into two teams. One team has to hit all the odd numbers, the 
other team has to hit all the even numbers. The first team to complete all of its 10 numbers wins.
Most darts boards are double-sided. The reverse side has a bull’s-eye with circular fields numbered from 1 to 10. This allows target games with simpler scoring to be played.
Safety issue: darts can be a dangerous game because of the sharp points on the darts. 
Depending on the age/ability of children, ensure that there is adequate adult supervision. 
Make children aware of the potential danger. Allow children to throw one by one, and 
ensure that while one child is throwing, all the other children are standing outside of the throwing area.
2.7. Throwball/sitting throwball
Throwball is particularly popular in India, but has also taken root in Sri Lanka. A national federation exists (the Sri Lanka Throwball Federation), and some throwball development activities have taken place in Northern Sri Lanka.
Throwball is a variant of volleyball, requiring less speed, strength and mobility, and 
is therefore suitable for many children with mobility impairments. Children with and without disabilities can play together.
Throwball is played between two teams of 7. The court is larger than a volleyball court 
(12.2 m x 18.3 m), and the net is 2.2. m high (slightly higher than a volleyball net). Instead of hitting the ball across the net, as in volleyball, in throwball the ball is thrown over the net and a member from the other team has to catch the ball and quickly throw 
it back across the net. The winning team is the first team to score 15 
points. A match is three sets.
The full rules of throwball can be found on the website of the World 
Throwball Federation, worldthrowball.com.
A variant of throwball is sitting throwball, which follows the same 
rules but players play in the seated position. This is therefore suitable 
for children with more severe mobility impairments, eg. wheelchair-
users. Children with and without disabilities can play together. Rules of this can vary – children can be free to move around the playing area (suitable on hard, smooth surfaces, eg. indoor sports halls), or each child is limited to a small playing area, eg. a mat (see photo). This is more suitable for outdoor play. In this case the court will need to be reduced in size.
Sitting throwball
87