a. Catch taken around waist height by the slips, the wicket keeper and close in fielders. 
b. Catch taken in the outfield from a lofted shot.
 Each player will be asked to demonstrate their ability to catch six balls in total:
 three balls at their waist height, with the ball thrown underarm to them from 5 
metres. 
 three balls tossed up in the air towards them with an underarm action, to a height of 10 to 15 metres off the ground. 
 Before throwing each ball, the tester will check that the fielder is ready to catch the ball by asking ‘Are you ready?’ 
Scoring – the player scores points as follows: 
3 points – the player catches ball, moves body behind ball, hands ready to catch and 
catches the ball 
2 points – the player watches ball, moves body behind ball, but drops the catch 
1 point – the player attempts to catch ball, but drops ball 
0 points – the player does not move, watch or catch ball.
2.4. Sport stacking
Sport stacking was developed in the USA in the 1990s and is now played in several 
countries in Europe and Asia. World championships are held annually in the USA. The sport has been mainly promoted among children.
The essence of sport stacking is to stack and unstack cups in various pre-
determined configurations of pyramids, against the clock. For example 
a 3-3-3 sequence uses 9 cups arranged in 3 pyramids of 3 cups; a 3-6-3 
sequence uses 12 cups arranged in 2 pyramids of 3 and one pyramid 
of 6. A standard sport stacking set consists of 12 cups, a timer and a 
textured ‘stacking mat’ on which the cups are stacked, to give greater 
grip and enable the player to stack faster. International-standard 
stacking sets are available commercially in Sri Lanka, but sets can also 
be improvised, eg. using plastic cups available in the local market, or 
using wooden blocks.
The game requires little lower limb mobility and can easily be 
adapted to be played from a seated position, eg. by wheelchair-users. The game is useful for developing concentration skills and hand-eye coordination. The fast nature of the game, and the bright colours of the equipment, are attractive to children.
84