2.8. Circuit training
Circuit training is a formalised approach to physical training aimed at developing 
strength and endurance. It can be used as part of physical training for many sports. It consists of a number of different ‘work stations’ which together make the circuit. Each person does the required exercise at each station for a prescribed duration (eg. 
30 seconds or one minute), before moving on to the next one. Children and youth 
often find circuit training fun, as it is such a varied, flexible approach to training – there are dozens of possible stations, using a wide range of different, interesting sports equipment (cones, hula hoops, skipping ropes, dumb-bells, gym balls, medicine balls, etc). Also, circuit training can involve children and youth keeping their own scores, eg. how many sit-ups can I do in 30 seconds?’ , and they enjoy measuring themselves and monitoring their progress.
The flexibility and adaptability of circuit training also makes it suitable for mixed 
ability groups. Different work stations focus on different parts of the body or different components of fitness. Therefore the instructor can tailor the work stations to the particular needs or limitations of certain children, eg. if the child has a particular need to improve arm strength, or hand-eye coordination, particular  work-stations could be incorporated in the circuit to address this. If a child is completely unable to manage the exercise at one work station, she can simply sit it out and resume at the next one. Circuit training is an individual activity – there is no competition or cooperation between the 
children, which means that children with disabilities can go at their own pace.
It can be fun designing circuits with different work stations. You may have your own 
favourite exercises, and you will find what exercises the children/youth in your group enjoy. Examples of circuit-training stations are given below.
1. Upper body - press-ups, dumb-bell exercises, throwing and catching a medicine 
ball in pairs, etc
Dumb-bell exercises
Press-ups  
(using push-up handles)
88