Who is this manual aimed at?
This manual is aimed primarily at those 
working at community level with children 
(eg. children’s club workers and volunteers from community-based organisations and NGOs) and youth (youth workers, sports club coaches 
and sports officers). The manual is also useful 
for teachers – primary teachers, PE teachers and Special Education teachers – who work with children with disabilities. For teachers, the manual 
can provide some tips and guidance although it 
is also recognised that school-based activities are largely governed by the official school syllabuses. 
The manual can give guidance and advice in a 
range of settings, eg. in informal play sessions, more formal sports coaching sessions, school PE 
lessons and sports events.
The manual recognises the value of sport and 
play both for competition and recreation. It is important to address both of these and not to 
over-emphasise competition, as this can lead to 
exclusion of players who are less able. Sport and play is not just about winning – it’s also about 
taking part! Through sport and play, we should 
be helping each individual to develop their own potential, to fulfil their own goals, regardless of whether or not they win trophies! This is nicely 
summed up in the motto of the Special Olympics 
(the worldwide sports movement for people with intellectual impairment) –
"Let me win. But if I cannot win, let me be brave 
in the attempt”Purpose of the manual
This manual aims to impact on users’ KNOWLEDGE and PRACTICE related to disability and inclusive 
sport.
It will increase the user’s KNOWLEDGE of:
 the main types of impairments which can 
affect children and youth, especially in Northern Sri Lanka
 the ‘social model’ of disability – which includes both social and medical constructs of disability
 the benefits of sport and leisure for all children and youth, including those with disabilities
 the policy framework in Sri Lanka promoting inclusion in sport, and policy gaps
 terminology related to inclusive and disability sport models of inclusive sport and leisure.
It will also improve the user’s PRACTICE in:
 conducting assessments of children and youth with disabilities
 adapting games and sports so that children and youth with disabilities can be included
 delivering inclusive and disability sport and play sessions
 ensuring health and safety during inclusive sport and play.
The manual brings together many of the training materials used during the Sports For All Project, on disability, social inclusion and models of inclusive sport. It also features many games and sports which have been field-tested in Vavuniya, Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu, and adapted to enable children with disabilities to participate.
2