2.5. Tennikoit
Like many sports, the origins of tennikoit are obscure but it seems likely that it originated 
in India, which is one of the countries of the world where the sport is the most popular today. It is played in around twenty countries worldwide, including Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan, as well as India. The sport is governed by the World Tennikoit Federation, 
which is based in Germany.
Tennikoit bears some resemblance to badminton, in that it is played on a court and 
uses a net. However the tennikoit court is slightly smaller than a badminton court (measuring 4.6 m x 12.2 m, for singles) and the net slightly higher (1.65 m rather than 1.55 m). The main difference is that tennikoit is not a racquet sport – it uses a solid rubber ring instead of a shuttlecock, and the ring is thrown and caught (one-handed) rather than hit by a racquet. Tennikoit has one major advantage over badminton, in 
that it can easily be played outdoors since the tennikoit ring, unlike a shuttlecock, is 
not affected by the wind. This is particularly important in rural areas where indoor sports facilities are non-existent.
Tennikoit is played by two players (or four, in doubles), throwing the tennikoit ring 
backwards and forwards over the net, and catching it with one hand only. A point is scored by a player when her opponent either drops or misses the tennikoit ring when it is thrown to her. There are various kinds of fouls which result in points being conceded, 
ie. serving, throwing and catching faults. Examples are;
 the ring touching the net during service (service fault)
	 throwing the fault with excessive wobbling, making a catch difficult (throwing 
fault)
	 taking steps with the ring after catching it and before throwing it (throwing fault).
A match consists of two 
periods of ten minutes – a 
total of 20 minutes.
Full tennikoit rules can 
be found on the World 
Tennikoit Federation 
website.
As an individual, non-
contact sport, tennikoit 
is quite suitable for 
many people with disabilities. The 
size of the court can also be made smaller for people with mobility impairments, and other rules simplified or modified. It can be played one-handed by people with arm impairment. The equipment is cheap and available in Sri Lanka. 
85