2.6. Darts
Darts is a traditional game, originating in England in the 19th century, and also a 
professional sport, with an international governing body (the World Darts Federation) 
and regular professional world championships. As a target game, involving little lower limb movement, the game is suitable for many people with physical impairments, 
including wheelchair-users. It can be played one-handed by people with one-arm 
impairments. Darts can be used educationally, helping children to develop maths skills in adding and subtracting their scores.
A standard darts set consists of a numbered dart board and a set of six darts (three each of two colours). The standard darts board, divided into sections numbered 1 to 20, is shown in this diagram; however there are also other variations of the board. 
Scorers score points according to where their darts hit the 
board – double and triple scores are gained when the dart hits the double and triple sections. An outer bull scores 25 and a bull’s eye scores 50.
The darts board is hung on a wall so that the ’bull’s-eye’ is 
5 feet 8 inches from the floor. The ‘oche’ (the line behind which throwing players stand) is 7  feet 9
1⁄4 inches from the face of 
the dartboard measured horizontally. These are international, competition standards – they can of course be adapted for children or for people of different levels of ability.
In international matches, players typically start with 501 points. Players take it in turns 
to throw 3 darts. Their cumulative total score is subtracted from 501. The aim of the game is to reach zero before your opponent. A player must reach zero by scoring a double. If a player’s turn means that his score goes below zero, or to one, that turn is forfeited. The winner is the first player to reach zero by finishing on a double.
These rules can be modifying considerably to make calculations easier and the game 
simpler for children – eg. starting from zero and trying to reach 100; waiving rules such 
as double and triple-scoring,  the ‘end on a double’ rule, etc. 
As well as ‘standard’ darts, many other, simpler games can be played with a darts board 
which can be more fun for children. You can create your own games and rules, eg:
	 children throw three darts and add up their score (with or without the double/triple rules) – the highest score 
wins. Children can play 
individually or in teams.
	 children have to hit all numbers in order from 1 to 20. The first child to get to 20 wins.
	 select a random number between 1 and 20, and the children have to hit it.
86