WARNING: This is not a first-aid 
manual! This chapter gives basic guidelines on health and safety, but the play leader will still need to consult with and refer to qualified first-aid personnel in the event of an accident
Also, this chapter covers only the 
commonest types of disability. For complex or uncommon disabilities, please seek advice from a doctor or physiotherapist.
Another potential risk in sport and leisure 
programmes is child protection. While participating in sport and play activities, children have a right to be protected from abuse (eg. physical, sexual 
or verbal), when they are playing in their own 
community or school, and also when taken away from home, eg. for tournaments or away fixtures. Such abuse can come from staff, volunteers, visitors, or even from other children. Children with disabilities may be particularly vulnerable to some forms of child abuse such as sexual abuse. For example children with communication difficulties 
(eg. children who are deaf or who have intellectual 
impairment) may be targeted by abusers who think that their victims are less likely to report them. Therefore this chapter of the manual will also give a brief introduction to the topic of child protection and what considerations you should be aware of, in particular the need to develop a Child Protection Policy for your school, sports club or 
NGO.General health and safety 
considerations
The following considerations of health and safety 
apply to all children and youth, including those with disabilities.
	Make sure there is a warm-up and cool-down activity, to prevent injuries such as muscle strains and cramps. Especially with younger children, make this fun and part of the play session, using games rather than formal exercises. As for other play and games activities, warm-up and cool-down exercises need to be adapted for children with 
disabilities.
	BE OBSERVANT AT ALL TIMES – an accident 
can only take a few seconds! Watch out for:
	signs of excessive fatigue among the children (eg. excessive sweating, over-fast or irregular breathing, change in skin colour), and take 
action immediately (tell the child to stop and 
rest in a shady place, fetch water, etc). Don’t rely on children knowing their own physical limits – while many do, some may try to push themselves beyond their limits and risk injury.
	Dangerous behaviour/practice among the children – many items of sports equipment (bats, balls, shot puts, dumb-bells, javelins, etc) can be dangerous if used in the wrong 
Swiss balls are fun to play with, but sitting/rolling on them needs 
adult supervision to avoid accidentsAdapted warm-up session for youth with disabilities
92