Chapter  VI
health and safety
T here are risks of accident and injury in sport and play for all children, not just 
those with disabilities. It’s vital to ensure a safe playing experience to reduce these 
risks to a minimum. It should be remembered that sport and play, as well as helping to 
increase the physical ability of children with disabilities, can also create new disabilities 
through sports-related injuries! 
While accidents and injuries can occur to any child during sport and play, for some 
children and youth with disabilities there are specific health and safety considerations which should be taken into account. This chapter will highlight ‘watch-points’ you should 
be aware of when you have a child with a disability in your play or sport session. Note that 
there is a potential risk not only to the child with disability herself, but to the other children involved in the play session, eg. from accidents involving wheelchairs and crutches.
It’s also important to note that many children with disabilities can participate in play and 
games with the same (or very slightly different) health and safety considerations as those 
without disabilities. There can be a tendency to over-protect children with disabilities and 
exclude them from physical activity because of excessive fear of accident or injury. We must have a realistic and accurate understanding and assessment of the potential health and safety issues for each particular child. As long as these issues are properly addressed, and as long as an appropriate physical activity is selected with the child or is appropriately adapted, these risks can be eliminated. 
Worry about injury or accident is not a reason to 
 
exclude a child or youth from play!Key Learning 
Points in this Chapter
	General health 
and safety 
considerations in 
play
	Specific health and safety issues 
related to children 
with disabilities
	Child protection Wheelchair basketball – fast, physical and safe: Vavuniya Para Sports Club v. 
Gajaba Sports Club in the National Championships, 2013
91