2.3. Cricket Skills
Similar to Football Skills above, Cricket Skills extracts the basic skills of the game to 
create an adapted, simplified, individualised version. Cricket Skills includes tests in the five basic skills of cricket:
1. Batting
2. Bowling
3. Fielding – throwing
4. Fielding – catching
5. Fielding – stopping the ball.
The tests for two of these (batting and catching) and their scoring systems are explained below. A description of all five is given in the Special Olympics manual (see references). Players would be tested and scored for all five skills, and given a sum total score. The winning player is the player with the highest score. Alternatively, Cricket Skills can be a team game, with the winning team being the one with the highest cumulative total of individual scores.
1.  Batting Skill Test - before the test begins, the players should be told what three 
skills you are looking for:
a. Lifting the bat and moving it towards the ball 
b.  Moving the feet 
c.  Hitting the ball.
 The bowler, standing at the bowling crease, throws down 6 balls towards the 
batter standing in their crease.  Ensure that the balls are bowled at a medium pace.
 Before each ball, the tester will check that the batter is ready by asking ‘are you ready?’
 Each ball should be thrown so that the ball lands at the most, 3 metres in front of the batter. Any ball not landing in the designated area will not count as one of the batters’ 6 balls.
Scoring – the batter scores points as follows: 
3 points – the batter lifts bat on delivery, moves feet, swings bat towards the ball, and 
hits the ball 
2 points – the batter lifts bat on delivery, moves feet, swings bat but misses the ball 
1 point – the batter swings bat and hits or misses the ball 0 points – the batter does not move bat or feet or swing at the ball.
Note: A batter cannot score 3 or 2 points if they do not move their feet, but just swing 
the bat. Foot movement in this skill test is essential.
Fielding – catching - There are two basic types of catches that are taken in Cricket: 
83