REQUIREMENTS
Players must not wear or use anything that is dangerous to themselves or anyone else. Some things are compulsory, others are optional.
WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN?
The teams must wear different kit colours (especially shirts and socks) which should also be different from the referee’s kit.
Each goalkeeper must wear a different colour from the other players of both teams, the referee and other match officials and, ideally, the other 
team’s goalkeeper (see: Goalkeepers).
All players must wear:
• a shirt with long or short sleeves
• shorts
• socks (if tape is used, it must be the same colour as the part of the sock it is covering)
• shinguards
• footwear (football boots are not compulsory)
Players can also wear:
• undershirts, as long as the sleeves are the same colour or have the same pattern as the shirt sleeves or cuffs (end part of the sleeve)
• undershorts, which must be the same colour as the shorts or their trim (lowest part of the shorts)
• other equipment, e.g. caps (for goalkeepers), sports spectacles and protectors (knee, head, etc.) can be worn, as long as they are not dangerous 
and are made of soft material
• head covers, which must not be dangerous or attached to the shirt
• fitness or data trackers (not on the wrist)
Players and match officials are not allowed to wear any kind of jewellery, e.g. rings, bracelets, earrings, necklaces, etc. All jewellery must be 
removed. Using tape to cover jewellery is not allowed.
The match officials inspect the players’ equipment before the game begins and the substitutes’ equipment before they enter the pitch. If a player 
is wearing jewellery or dangerous equipment, the referee must tell the player to remove the item.
Players, substitutes and team officials are not allowed to wear (or reveal) anything that has political, religious or personal slogans, statements or 
images. This includes anything that could be considered to be offensive, insulting, abusive, provocative or discriminatory. Any such item should 
be removed. A yellow card is not shown, but a report must be sent to the appropriate authorities after the game.
WHAT HAPPENS IF…PLAYERS’ KIT
both teams have the same colour shirt as each other and no other colour is available?
The game cannot take place – competition rules usually state which team must change if there is a clash of colours.
both teams have the same colour socks as each other and no other colour is available?
The referee may decide to allow the game to take place.
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
19/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME