PLAYERS & SUBSTITUTES
REQUIREMENTS
The game is played by two teams of no more than 11 players each. One of the players must be a goalkeeper.
A game cannot start or continue if a team has fewer than seven players.
A team list with the names of all the players and substitutes (and sometimes team officials) is usually given to the referee before kick-off. If the 
competition rules do not require a team list, the referee must be given the names of the substitutes before kick-off. Substitutes are extra players 
who may replace team-mates during a game (see: Substitutions).
An outfield player may change places with the goalkeeper, as long as the referee is informed before the change is made and the change occurs 
when the game has been stopped by the referee.
Each team has a captain, who should help the referee wherever possible with their team’s behaviour (see: Captains).
WHAT HAPPENS IF…
a team has fewer than 11 players before the game starts?
Any player arriving after kick-off may play, as long as their name was on the team list given to the referee before the game. 
a team has too many players on the pitch?
The referee must stop the game, reduce the team to the correct number and submit a report after the game to the appropriate authorities.a team is reduced to fewer than seven players during the game (e.g. because of red cards and/or injuries)?
The game must be abandoned and the referee must submit a report after the game to the appropriate authorities.
a team has too many players on the pitch and scores a goal?
The extra player must be removed from the pitch and:
• if the game has not restarted, the goal is disallowed, and play is restarted with a direct free kick to the other team from the position of 
the extra player
• if the game has restarted, the goal is allowed, play continues, and the matter is reported to the appropriate authorities after the game
a player changes places with the goalkeeper without the referee’s permission (except at half-time or the break 
before the start of extra time or penalties)?
• Play continues
• Both players are shown a yellow card the next time the game stops
For further information, click here.
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
15/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME