DEFINITION 
Penalties occur after a match has ended (with or without extra time, depending on competition rules) and the scores are level and a winning 
team is needed.
PROCEDURE
The teams take alternate kicks. Players cannot take another kick until all their team-mates have taken one.
If a player is not ready to take a kick (e.g. they are off the pitch), another player, who has not taken a kick, must take the kick.
Each team takes up to five kicks. If one team scores more goals than the other team could score, even if they scored with all their remaining kicks 
their five kicks, they are the winners.
If the scores are level after each team has taken five kicks, the penalties continue into ‘sudden death’, where kicks are taken alternately until one 
team has scored more than the other team after the same number of kicks.
If all the players have taken a kick and the scores are still level, a second round starts – the teams can change the order of kickers for this round.
If the kicker commits an offence, their kick is recorded as missed (whether or not they score).
Yellow cards and warnings from the game are not carried forward into penalties but a player who was shown a red card during the game cannot 
take part.
Players, substitutes, substituted players and team officials can get a red or yellow card during penalties.
WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN?
Before the kicks start
Only players who are playing at the end of the game (including those who are off the pitch injured, changing boots, etc.) are allowed to take part.
Everyone else (substitutes, team officials, etc.) must be off the pitch.
If one team has more players than the other team (e.g. a player was sent off or injured), they must reduce their team to the same number of kickers, 
and the referee must be told which player(s) is/are not taking part.
The referee:
• tosses a coin to decide which goal to use (unless one goal cannot be used, e.g. lots of water on the pitch, security reasons, etc.)
• tosses the coin again and the winning captain chooses whether to kick first or second
No substitutions are allowed except for a goalkeeper who is ill/injured.
A goalkeeper who is ill/injured before or during penalties can be substituted if their team has not used all their substitutes or they have a player 
who was excluded to make the number of players in each team equal. If there are no excluded players and all the substitutes have been used, one 
of the on-field players must replace the goalkeeper.
The teams do not have to tell the referee the order of the kickers.
During the kicks
All players except for the two goalkeepers and the kicker must be in the centre circle.
The ball must be on the penalty spot and not moving.PENALTIES / PENALTY SHOOT-OUT
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
40/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME