ABOUT THESE RULES
Foot ball, the world’s most popular spo rt, has one of sport’s smallest Law/rule bo oks. However, like any rule book, T he IFAB’s official ‘Laws of the 
Game’ is very detailed and uses technical and sometimes complex language.
Consequently, many people who watch, play, coach, referee or report on the game have  asked for a simple r version which gives a shorter but clea r 
overall pict ure. Therefore, we created “Football Rules” , a reduced ve rsion of t he official Laws of the Game. Whilst the Laws are mainly intended for 
referees, the Football Rules use simpler language and a different structure, to make the Laws easier to understand for everyone. Each Rule has a 
link to the corresponding sections in the Laws of the Game for those who want more information or the official wording.
The term “rules” and the other terms used in this version ( e.g. ‘pitch ’ instead of ‘field of play’, p enalty ‘spot’ inst ead of penalty ‘mark or ‘penalties’ 
instead of ‘kicks from the penalty mark’) were chosen to reflect widely used words and terms. 
There is a simpler struc ture with a f ocus on ‘ what  should happen ?’ and ‘what happens if …’ something happens  which is not e xpected or allowed.
One of football’s key attractions is its simplicity. Hopefully, these Football  Rules will provi de an easier understanding and appreciation of the Laws for 
everyone, an d will enha nce the game’s attractivene ss for part icipants an d spectators wherever they are in the world, and  at whatever level of  the game. 
If you have any questions, they can be sent to: lawenquiries@theifab.com
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
Special thanks to Daniel Bennett, Alex Feuerherdt, Duane Dell’Oca & Maciej Leśnik for thei r detailed con tribu tions and assistance in helping 
ensure that these “Football Rules” refle ct the  needs of all football stakeholde rs who  are interested in gaining a clearer  unde rstanding of the Laws 
of the Game.
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
4/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME