DEFINITION 
Advantage is when an offence (foul, handball, offside, technical, etc.) occurs and, because the non-offending team has useful possession of the 
ball, the referee allows play to continue, as it is to their benefit.
WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN?
The referee signals advantage by extending one or both arms forward at shoulder height.
The referee should only play advantage if:
• there is a real benefit for the non-offending team
• no player is seriously injured
• there is no risk of a reaction or confrontation
Unless there is a clear goal-scoring opportunity for the non-offending team, the referee should not play advantage following red-card offences, 
particularly:
• serious foul play
• violent conduct
• offences requiring a second yellow card
The referee must make a quick, tactical decision and should remember that:
• allowing play to continue is not always in the best interests of the non-offending team, e.g. if they are in or near their own penalty area and/or 
under pressure
• a free kick in an attacking situation may be better for the non-offending team than allowing play to continue
The referee can wait a few seconds to allow a possible advantage to develop, and if the non-offending team does not benefit and gains no 
advantage, the original free kick can be given. However, the non-offending team should not be given two chances, e.g. a player is fouled but 
recovers and has a shot at goal; if the player does not score, the referee cannot go back and give a free kick for the original offence.
If the referee plays advantage following an offence that would have resulted in a red or yellow card being shown, the card must be shown next 
time the game stops. However:
• if the offence was denying an obvious goal-scoring opportunity, a yellow card is shown instead of a red card as playing advantage allowed the 
attack to continue
• if the offence was stopping a promising attack, no card is shown as playing advantage allowed the attack to continue
WHAT HAPPENS IF…ADVANTAGE
a defender starts fouling (e.g. holding) an opponent outside the penalty area and the foul continues into the penalty area?
The referee plays advantage for the offence outside the area and awards a penalty kick.
a defender starts fouling (e.g. holding) an opponent inside the penalty area and the foul continues outside the penalty area?
The referee awards a penalty kick (no advantage is played).
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
48/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME