DEFINITION
Substitutes are extra players who may replace team-mates during a game.
Competition rules:
• determine how many substitutes a team can:
 >name on the team list
 >use during a game
• may allow each team to use one additional substitute in extra time
At lower levels, some competitions allow rolling/return substitutes, which means a player who has been substituted can return to the game.
In all top-level competitions, each team has a maximum of three opportunities to make a substitution (excluding during half-time, the period 
between full-time and the start of extra time, and at half-time in extra time). An additional substitution opportunity may be allowed during extra 
time. Other competitions may also decide to apply these restrictions.
WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN?
• The names of the substitutes must be given to the referee before the game starts
• A substitution can only occur when the game is stopped and with the referee’s permission
• The player being substituted must:
 >leave the pitch at the nearest point on the boundary line or quickly at the halfway line, unless already off the pitch
 >go straight to the bench/technical area or the dressing room and remain off the pitch
• The substitute must only enter the pitch:
 >after receiving the referee’s signal
 >after the substituted player has left the pitch
 >at the halfway line
• Once the substituted player has left the pitch and the substitute has come on, the substitution is over and cannot be changed (except in the 
case of rolling/return substitutes)
WHAT HAPPENS IF…SUBSTITUTIONS
someone whose name was not given to the referee before the kick-off wants to play?
They cannot take part in the game.
the player being substituted will not leave the pitch?
The game carries on.
a player leaves the pitch at the wrong place to waste time?
The player is shown a yellow card.
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
45/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME