DEFINITION
Substitutes, substituted players and team officials (including coaches, doctors, physios, etc.) are not allowed onto the pitch without the referee’s 
permission.
A player who has gone off the pitch with an injury or to change kit, etc. must wait for a signal from the referee before returning.
WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN? 
Substitutes, substituted players and team officials must remain on the bench/in the technical area (if there is one). If there is no technical area, 
they must stay on the side of the pitch outside the touchline.
They may only go onto the pitch after getting a signal from the referee (except in an emergency, e.g. serious injury).
A player who has gone off the pitch with an injury or to change kit, etc. must wait for the referee’s signal to return, which can be given whilst the 
ball is in play. If the game is stopped, the player can return to the pitch from the goal line or touchline, but if the ball is in play, the player can only 
return to the pitch from the touchline.
WHAT HAPPENS IF…SUBSTITUTES OR TEAM  
OFFICIALS ON THE PITCH 
a substitute, substituted player or player who has gone off the pitch with an injury or to change kit, etc. enters the pitch without 
permission?
If there is no interference with the game:
• the referee can allow the game to continue
• when the game stops, the offending person is:
 >shown a yellow card for entering the pitch without permission
 >required to leave the pitch (if they are a substitute or substituted player)
If there is interference with the game:
• the referee stops play (unless an advantage can be played) and awards a direct free kick (or penalty kick if the interference is in the offending 
player’s penalty area) and the offending person is:
 >shown a yellow card for entering the pitch without permission, if they are a player
 >shown a second yellow card and then a red card if they have committed another offence, e.g. a reckless tackle or arguing with the referee
 >shown a red card if they have committed a sending-off offence (e.g. violent conduct, serious foul play, denying the other team a goal 
or an obvious goal-scoring opportunity)
 >required to leave the pitch (if they are a substitute or substituted player)
a team official enters the pitch and there is interference with the game:
• the referee stops play (unless an advantage can be played) and awards a direct free kick (or penalty kick if the interference is in the penalty 
area of the offending team official) and the person is:
 >shown a red card for entering the pitch without permission   >> continues next page
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
63/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME