DEFINITION
Youth, veterans, disability and grassroots football are allowed to have sin bins (temporary dismissals), where a player who gets a yellow card is 
sent off for a short period of time (as defined in the competition rules, e.g. 5-10 minutes).
Competition rules will determine whether to have sin bins for all yellow cards or only for specific yellow card offences, e.g. dissent only.
WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN?
• When a player commits a sin-bin offence, the referee shows a yellow card and points with both arms to the benches/technical areas to indicate 
that the player must leave the pitch.
• The player leaves the pitch and stays off it (on the bench/in the technical area or with the team officials) until the sin-bin time is up and there 
is a signal from the referee to return. The signal can be given when the ball is in play.
• The sin-bin time starts when the game restarts, after the player has left the pitch.
• If there is a stoppage in play during the sin-bin time, this time is added to the sin-bin time.
• A player who has been in the sin bin once and then commits another sin-bin offence later in the game is sent to the sin bin again. At the end of 
their second sin-bin time, they cannot return to the game, but they can be substituted (if the team has not used all its substitutions).
• In competitions where not all yellow cards result in a sin bin, a player who gets a normal yellow card and a sin bin yellow card is not sent off 
for two yellow cards.
WHAT HAPPENS IF...TEMPORARY DISMISSALS / SIN BINS
a player commits an offence when in the sin bin (e.g. argues about a decision)?
The player is shown a red or yellow card (depending on the offence) and is not allowed to return to the game when the sin-bin time is up.
a player is in the sin bin at the end of the first half?
The player spends the remaining time in the sin bin at the start of the second half.
a player is in the sin bin at the end of the game and there is extra time?
The player spends the remaining time in the sin bin at the start of extra time.
a player is in the sin bin at the end of the game and there are penalties?
The player can take part in the penalties.
For further information, click here.
The International Football Association Board 2022® All Rights Reserved. / Version 1.0 - 12/2022  theifab.com
79/88
FOOTBALL RULES
SIMPLIFIED  LAWS OF THE GAME