Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workersii   Foreword
The overall objective of the National Agriculture Policy is to achieve 
food and nutrition security and improve household income. Food 
and nutrition security encompasses issues of food availability, access and utilization for maximum health benefits and social economic develop -
ment. This can be achieved through enhanced agricultural productivity, proper farm management, agro-processing, marketing, community awareness, enhanced community and household capacity to withstand shocks and adapting appropriate practices that ensure better food utili -
zation, for instance proper home care, personal hygiene, food prepara-tion and feeding practices. Improved food utilization can be achieved through a deliberate effort to integrate nutrition in all agriculture devel-opment programs.
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) supports 
households and communities to increase access to and consumption of diversified foods from their own production or purchase throughout the year. In addition, the Ministry plays an important role in reducing post-harvest losses and addressing issues related to women’s workload within households. All this is aimed at improving nutrition among house -
holds and communities and is in line with the Uganda Nutrition Action Plan (UNAP 2011–2016).
However, malnutrition remains one of the main health and economic 
problems facing our country and has negative consequences on produc -
tivity. The productivity lost when agriculture workers take time off to deal with malnutrition related illnesses or deaths in their families is enormous. For example, the loss caused by iron deficiency anaemia in adults alone is US$34 million worth of productivity (PROFILES, 2012).
This handbook is designed to help extension workers and other service 
providers engaged in day-to-day delivery of agricultural extension and advisory services in communities to understand the link between agriculture, food, nutrition and health. General guidelines on proper selection of foods to achieve a balanced diet and issues of food safety have been handled. In addition, examples of recipes for preparation of a variety of 