Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workers39Weaning/complementary 	feeding	practices
Weaning is the gradual introduction of food into the diet of the child. 
Alongside breast milk at the age of six months, beyond 6 months, breast milk alone is not enough to meet the child’s increased nutritional needs 
for proper growth and development. During weaning there are six princi -
ples to follow: meal frequency, amount, thickness, variety, active feeding 
and hygiene. This is commonly referred to as the FATVAH.
1. Frequency of meals refers to the number of meals eaten in a day. In 
order to meet the child’s body’s needs, for growth, development, and activity, we must feed them frequent meals, meaning 3 meals and 2 
snacks each day.
2. Amount of foods refers to how much food is eaten at each meal. It is 
important to eat foods in the appropriate amounts, again to ensure that 
we are not getting too little or too much food. For example, the youngest child needs less while the eldest child needs more amount of food for each meal as shown on table 3.
3. Thickness of foods/consistency (not too thick as to have difficulty 
chewing or swallowing, not too watery). The thickness of foods/ consis -
tency is an important factor to eating well, because if food is too thick, 
it might make it difficult to chew and swallow. However, if food is too watery, the energy value of the food is reduced.
4.	V ariety 	of 	diff erent 	f oods 	from each food group. In session 2 we 
learned about the food groups and their importance. We now know 
that each food serves the body differently (“GO”, “GLOW”, “GROW”), 
therefore it is important to have a variety of foods from each food group 
in order to eat well. Use fortified foods, when available; give vitamin/mineral supplements when animal products, fortified foods, or micronu -
trient (vitamin A, Fe & Zn) rich foods are not readily available.
5.	Activ ely 	f eed 	and 	support  is important, particularly for PLHIV. This is 
more than just feeding PLHIV (both adults and children), but involves a 
number of actions to support PLHIV to have access to food, grow foods, 
and prepare these foods.