Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workers51Nutrition-friendly agricultural practices can be divided into three broad 
areas:
A) PLANNING FOR NUTRITION FRIENDLY AGRICULTURE: NEEDS IDENTIFICATION
The process of identification of farmer needs is the first entry point for integration of nutrition services. Farmers should be provided nutrition 
information and facilitated to articulate nutrition sensitive requirements 
during this process.
Keys	considerations
Quality of farming inputs: Encourage farmer group to plan for diver -
sified inputs which are nutrient rich including fruits and vegetables; 
biofortified foods; animal source products.
Ensure	Male 	and 	f emale 	in volvement 	in 	participa tory 	planning 	(f armer 	
group discussions):  In Uganda women provide the majority of the labour 
force in agriculture and are basically the caregivers in homes including 
all aspects of child feeding and home management. Therefore they need 
deliberate targeting to increase farm productivity and adaption of posi -
tive childcare practices. However, they also need support of their male counterparts to ensure home harmony and sustained change.
Involvement of the most vulnerable farming households: Traditional 
extension had ignored these categories because they don’t easily adapt 
the technologies being promoted. This further increases their vulnera-
bility to malnutrition. They need consideration and deliberate targeting.
Labour saving technologies: Provision of agriculture labour has a direct 
effect on childcare practices within the agricultural households. Usually 
caregivers in agriculture households leave children under the care of older siblings; may have one meal a day which contributes to the poor nutrition status of children. Planning should focus on adoption of labour saving technologies to free time for provision of child care.
Involvement of the youth: Uganda has a younger population and the 
youth are the majority in most communities. This same group typically 
rejects careers in the agriculture and food system. Involvement of the 