Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workers58utable to absence of adequate processing and preservation facilities 
among farming households; poor handling during loading and unloading at market points; bruising, puncturing, and crushing due to improper packing; absence of grading especially for fruits and vegetables and 
inadequate knowledge among farmers on cottage processing. Reten-
tion of physical and nutritional qualities of agricultural produce can be 
ensured by developing appropriate and improved postharvest handling, storage and cooking. This keeps consumers healthier and improves the marketability of farm produce.
Promote	harvesting 	at	the	correct	maturity	stage
• Harvest food at the right stage of maturity to ensure maximum 
nutrient availability, e.g., most fruits and vegetables have greater 
vitamin content if they are picked ripe from the plant, rather than 
being picked before they have fully ripened.
• Over ripening of fruits will reduce the nutritional quality of fruits.
• Avoid physical and mechanical damages during harvesting to ensure longer storage and safe food following the harvest.
• Early planting prevents nuts from maturing during periods of low rainfall, which stresses a plant and encourages growth of the fungus 
on ripening crops.
Cleaning
• Drying of produce should be done on a clean and dry surface to 
avoid moisture and reduce the risk of contamination. As much as 
possible tarpaulins should be used.
• It is recommended that drying is done on a raised platform, one 
(1) meter above the ground to reduce contamination from animals 
passing by.
Discourage 	processing 	practices	that	produce	microbial 	
contaminate of the agricultural harvest
• Ensure crop is not left on the ground or on bare soil during drying, 
shelling and threshing, where fungal spores develop. The practice of 
moistening the unshelled nuts to make them easier to shell results 
in higher contamination from aflatoxin and should therefore be 
strictly discouraged.