Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workers544.  Con trol diseases, agricultural chemical and veterinary drug residues 
associated with food production systems.
5.  In tegrate gender consideration in agricultural production practices.
6.  Design enterprise mixes or farming systems with inbuilt risk mitiga -
tion (market and natural/environment risk) especially for the vulner -
able groups.
1)	Pr oduction 	of 	a 	v ariety 	of 	cr op 	and 	animal 	sour ce	f oods 	f or 	nutri -
ent-dense diet.  The farmers should be encouraged to provide land for 
raring animals/small livestock and for crop productions of home crops 
such as fruits and vegetables which are high in nutrients yet require limited agriculture inputs. Fruits and vegetables are high yielding, require limited space and can be used for a variety of cropping systems selected by the farmers. Examples of these farming systems that promote diver -
sified production are hedge gardening and kitchen gardening for fruits and vegetables:
• It is advisable that food be grown on fertile soils that are rich in 
nutrients.
• Proper timing of planting, weeding, irrigation, pests and disease control and other important farming practices.
• Foods rich in protective nutrients (vitamins and minerals) should be produced: These include orange fleshed sweet potato varieties 
(OFSP which is rich in vitamin A), iron rich beans, carrots rich in vi -
tamin A, pumpkin seed rich in zinc, dark green leafy vegetables and fresh fruits rich in vitamins.
• Foods rich in protein from crops source such as high quality protein 
maize (QPM) and legumes especially soya bean. Foods rich in pro-
tein from animal source (those which can easily be kept by women 
or children for consumption or sold in the market to earn cash for 
household health expenditure without exciting men to resist). These 
include: poultry, rabbits, guinea pigs, fish farming, goats and pigs.
• Foods rich in proteins such as insects (grasshoppers, white ants, caterpillars, termites) should be promoted.
• Encourage kitchen gardens and growing of fruits as part of local gov -
ernment bylaws. Integrate nutrition along the strategic agricultural 
value chains by promoting the production of biofortified food variet -