Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workers52youth is critical in building the next generation of agricultural leaders 
and thus creates sustainable change in the community.
Nutrition 	and	agricultur e 	in formation 	sharing: 	During planning ensure 
that farmer groups provide a forum to discuss nutrition issues; groups can set rules ensuring all members practice essential nutrition actions (refer 
to chapter 3). Groups can buy labour saving technologies to address the 
issues of labour and child care; and empower farmers to demand for 
appropriate nutrition advice and information. Extension workers should train farmers to identify and articulate their nutrition needs.
Selection 	of 	en terprise 	mix es 	tha t 	ha ve 	a 	high 	nutritio n 	impact: 	There 
is a tendency to focus of high yielding and profitable products in farming 
as a business. The prioritization and allocation of enterprises (zoning) 
across Uganda has emphasized food availability and commercialization 
with minimal emphasis on nutrition security. Extension workers should encourage and ensure farmers’ enterprise selection provides for both nutrition and income generation benefits.
Enterprise mixes with potentially strong nutrition impacts should have a 
mix of the following characteristics in addition to the high market poten-
tial:
• Provision of nutrients which are commonly deficient in the commu-
nity for example orange fleshed sweet potatoes, fruits, vegetables, 
small animals and others.
• Ensure the selected enterprise mix and/or actions along the value 
chain have inbuilt childcare considerations, e.g., reduction, of wom-
en’s workload to free time for childcare, promotion of community 
based childcare centres as part of agricultural development pro-
grams, promotion of household level income generation activities 
for women such as cottage level agroprocessing and others.
• Promote agricultural enterprise mixes and/or actions along the val-ue chain that ensures table food availability and more frequent flow 
of incomes for households (weekly or monthly).
• Promote production practices that protect the environment and/or 
reduce natural risks, e.g., climate change associated risks.