Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workers65Livestock 	production
• When animals have been treated with veterinary drugs, the drug 
withdrawal period for each drug should be observed before the an-
imals are sold for slaughter or the animal products such as milk are 
released for human consumption.
• The farmer should consult a veterinary doctor for guidance. If the animals or animal products are released for human consumption 
before the drug withdrawal period is over, the drug or its metabo -
lites is still in the animal/animal product and when consumed may lead to drug resistance in human or failure to respond usual human 
drug treatment.
• Animal products are highly perishable and germs easily multiply in them so should be properly handled and cooked before consump -
tion.
• Provide information/guidelines on the effect of poor handling of produce to various players throughout the value chain and how 
it can be prevented. Sustained public awareness campaigns are 
essential in order to improve the situation. Food quality along the 
value chain right from production through marketing to consump -
tion must remain a key element in the food security and nutrition agenda.
Recommended actions for aflatoxin prevention and or reduction in 
foods
• Aspergillusflavus fungus which produces aflatoxins grows best on 
maize at 18.0 to 18.5 percent moisture. Moisture content below 13 
percent prevents growth of Aspergillusflavus.
• After harvest, the moisture content of produce must be dried to 12 
to 14 percent for safe storage with minimum deterioration.
• Reducing drought stress through irrigation and limiting insect dam -
age by the application of good agricultural and pest control practic-
es, including use of high quality seeds is essential.
• Rapid drying limits aflatoxin proliferation for example, the piling of 
maize in stacks in the field extends drying time and therefore the 
potential for aflatoxins to be produced during the drying process. 
Wet-shelling of groundnuts prior to drying can also promote mould 
growth.