Food and Nutrition Handbook for Extension Workers85Annex	4.	Uganda	Nutrition 	Advocacy 	
Messages (PROFILES)
The productivity lost when agriculture workers take time off to deal with 
malnutrition-related illnesses or deaths in their families. The country losses about US$34 million worth of productivity because of iron defi-ciency anaemia among adults. Women of reproductive age with anaemia accounted for 75 percent, or US$25 million, of that loss. The total loss estimated at about 0.4 percent of the gross domestic product/GDP .
Stunting in early childhood affects productivity in adulthood. For every 1 
percent that the height of a child under 2 years of age is below the norm, the child’s productivity from manual labour as an adult declines by 1.4 percent. Uganda losses about US$210 million worth of productivity from childhood stunting. These two conditions alone (iron deficiency anaemia and stunting) are associated with productivity loss of about US$290 million per year (PROFILES, 2009).
Vitamin A deficiency, which affects mainly women and children in 
Uganda, increases the risk of blindness and susceptibility to diseases, mainly diarrhoea and acute respiratory infections in children. Children with vitamin A deficiency are 1.4 times more likely to die of these and other childhood illnesses than ones that are not deficient.
Iodine deficiency disorder (IDD), is the single most common cause of 
preventable mental impairment, brain damage, and physical disabili -
ties among children in Uganda. Women with IDDs give birth to children with reduced ability to learn, lower school performance, higher rates of school-age repetition, and poor speech and hearing ability. What is especially tragic is that the effects of iodine deficiency are permanent. Because of IDD, in the year 2009 alone, 2,100 children were born as cretins in Uganda and likely will require 100 percent care in their entire lives, 59,000 children were born with mild or moderate mental disabil -
ities and Uganda lost US$8.6 million in productivity (Uganda Profiles 2012).