5Table 3. Yield of Cooked Meat per Pound of
Raw Meat as Purchased
From the time it is purchased to the time it is eaten,
meat undergoes certain losses. These include
evaporation of moisture and loss of fat in the
drippings during cooking and removal of parts such
as bone, gristle, and fat before or after cooking.
This table shows, for several retail cuts, the yield of
cooked meat from 1 pound of raw meat. Yield is
given as ounces of:
Cooked meat with bone and fat
Cooked lean and fat
Cooked lean only
Table 3. Yield of Cooked Meat per Pound of Raw Meat as Purchased
Yield after cooking, less drippings
Retail cut and method of cooking Parts weighed      Weight (oz)
Chops or steaks for broiling or frying
With bone and relatively large amount fat, Lean, bone, and fat 10-12
such as pork or lamb chops; beef rib; Lean and fat 7-10
sirloin, or porterhouse steaks Lean only 5-7
Without bone and with very little fat, such Lean and fat 12-13
as round of beef or veal steaks Lean only 9-12
Ground meat for broiling or frying, such as Patties 9-13
beef, lamb, or pork patties
Roast for oven cooking (no liquid added)
With bone and relatively large amount of Lean, bone, and fat 10-12
fat, such as beef rib, loin, chuck; lamb Lean and fat 8-10
shoulder, leg; pork, fresh or cured Lean only 6-9
Without bone Lean and fat 10-12
Lean only 7-10
Cuts for pot roasting, simmering, braising,
stewing
With bone and relatively large amount of Lean, bone, and fat 10-11
fat, such as beef chuck, pork shoulder Lean and fat 8-9
Lean only 6-8
Without bone and with relatively small Lean with adhering fat 9-11
amount of fat, such as trimmed beef, vealAmong the factors influencing meat yield is the
proportion of fat and lean. Many cuts have an
outside layer of fat extending all or part way
around. The thickness of this fat layer varies
depending on the cutting and trimming practices in
the market. The information on yield in table 3 and
on nutritive value in table 9 applies to retail cuts
trimmed according to typical market practices.
Deposits of fat within a cut may be extensive. They
are not usually affected by retail trimming but may
be discarded after cooking.