13Vitamin A is reported in two different units:
International Units (IU) are used on food labels and
in the past for expressing vitamin A activity;
Retinol Equivalents (RE) are the units released in
1989 by the Food and Nutrition Board for
expressing the RDAs for vitamin A.
Values for calories and nutrients shown in table 9
are the amounts in the part of the item that is
customarily eaten—corn without cob, meat without
bones, and peaches without pits. Nutrient values are
averages for products presented here. Values for
some nutrients may vary more widely for specific
food items. For example, the vitamin A content of
beef liver varies widely, but the values listed in
table 9 represent an average for that food.
In some cases, as with many vegetables, values for
fat may be trace (Tr), yet there will be numerical
values listed for some of the fatty acids. The values
for fat have been rounded to whole numbers, unless
they are between 0 and 0.5; then they are listed as
trace. This definition of trace also applies to the
other nutrients in table 9 that are rounded to whole
numbers.
Other uses of “trace” in table 9 are:
•For nutrients rounded to one decimal place,
values falling between 0 and 0.05 are trace.
•For nutrients rounded to two decimal places,
values falling between 0 and 0.005 are trace.
Thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, and iron values in
enriched white flours, white bread and rolls,
cornmeals, pastas, farina, and rice are based on the
current enrichment levels established by the Food
and Drug Administration. Enrichment levels for
riboflavin in rice were not in effect at press time
and are not used in table 9. Enriched flour is used in
most home-prepared and commercially prepared
baked goods.
Niacin values given are for preformed niacin that
occurs naturally in foods. The values do not include
additional niacin that may be formed in the body
from tryptophan, an essential amino acid in the
protein of most foods.
Nutrient values for many prepared items were
calculated from the ingredients in typical recipes.
Examples are biscuits, cornbread, mashed potatoes,white sauce, and many dessert foods. Adjustments
were made for nutrient losses during cooking.
Nutrient values for toast and cooked vegetables do
not include any added fat, either during preparation
or at the table. Cutting or shredding vegetables may
destroy part of some vitamins, especially ascorbic
acid. Since such losses are variable, no deduction
has been made.
Values for cooked dry beans, vegetables, pasta,
noodles, rice, cereal, meat, poultry, and fish are
without salt added. If hot cereals are prepared with
salt, the sodium content ranges from about 324-374
mg for Malt-O-Meal, Cream of Wheat, and rolled
oats. The sodium value for corn grits is about 540
mg; sodium for Wheatena is about 238 mg. Sodium
values for canned vegetables labeled as “no salt
added” are similar to those listed for the cooked
vegetables.
The mineral contribution of water was not
considered for coffee, tea, soups, sauces, or
concentrated fruit juices prepared with water.
Sweetened items contain sugar unless identified as
artificially sweetened.
Several manufactured items—including some milk
products, ready-to-eat breakfast cereals, imitation
cream products, fruit drinks, and various mixes—
are included in table 9. Such foods may be fortified
with one or more nutrients; the label will describe
any fortification. Values for these foods may be
based on products from several manufacturers, so
they may differ from the values provided by any
one source. Nutrient values listed on food labels
may also differ from those in table 9 because of
rounding on labels.
Nutrient values represent meats after they have
been cooked and drained of the drippings. For
many cuts, two sets of values are shown: meat
including lean and fat parts, and lean meat from
which the outer fat layer and large fat pads have
been removed either before or after cooking.
In the entries for cheeseburger and hamburger in
Mixed Dishes and Fast Foods, “condiments” refers
to catsup, mustard, salt, and pepper; “vegetables”
refers to lettuce, tomato, onion, and pickle;
“regular” is a 2-oz patty, and large is a 4-oz patty
(precooked weight).