12Table 9. Nutritive Value of the Edible Part of
Food
Table 9 lists the nutritive values of foods
commonly consumed in the United States and
makes up the bulk of this publication. The data
source is USDA Nutrient Database for Standard
Reference, Release 13 (U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service 2000).
See Further Information for more about this
database. Most differences in values between this
table and the Standard Reference are due to
rounding.
Foods are grouped under the following headings:
Beverages
Dairy products
Eggs
Fats and oils
Fish and shellfish
Fruits and fruit juices
Grain products
Legumes, nuts, and seeds
Meat and meat products
Mixed dishes and fast foods
Poultry and poultry products
Soups, sauces, and gravies
Sugars and sweets
Vegetables and vegetable products
Miscellaneous items.
Most of the foods listed are in ready-to-eat form.
Some are basic products widely used in food
preparation, such as flour, oil, and cornmeal. Most
snack foods, a separate food group in the Standard
Reference, are found under Grain Products.
Measures and weights . The approximate measure
given for each food is in cups, ounces, pounds,
some other well-known unit, or a piece of a
specified size. The measures do not necessarily
represent a serving, but the unit given may be used
to calculate a variety of serving sizes. For example,
nutrient values are given for 1 cup of applesauce. If
the serving you consume is Z\x cup, divide the
values by 2 or multiply by 0.5.
For fluids, the cup measure refers to the standard
measuring cup of 8 fluid ounces. The ounce is one-
sixteenth of a pound, unless “fluid ounce” is
indicated. The weight of a fluid ounce variesaccording to the food. If the household measure of
a food is listed as 1 ounce, the nutrients are based
on a weight of 28.35 grams, rounded to 28 grams in
the table. All measure weights are actual weights or
rounded to the nearest whole number. See table 2,
Tips for Estimating Amount of Food Consumed,
for help in determining the size of the portion you
actually eat or drink.
The table gives the weight in grams for an
approximate measure of each food. The weight
applies to only the edible portion (part of food
normally eaten), such as the banana pulp without
the peel. Some poultry descriptions provide weights
for the whole part, such as a drumstick, including
skin and/or bone. Keep in mind that the nutritive
values are only for the edible portions indicated in
the description. For example, item 877, roasted
chicken drumstick, indicates a weight of 2.9 oz (82
grams) with the bone and skin. But note that the
weight of one drumstick, meat only, is listed as 44
grams (about 1 Z\x oz). So the skin and bone equal
38 grams (82 minus 44). Nutrient values are always
given for the gram weight listed in the column
Weight—in this case, 44 grams.
Food values. Values are listed for water; calories;
protein; total fat; saturated, monounsaturated, and
polyunsaturated fatty acids; cholesterol;
carbohydrate; total  dietary fiber; four minerals
(calcium, iron, potassium, and sodium); and five
vitamins (vitamin A, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin,
and ascorbic acid, or vitamin C). Water content is
included because the percentage of moisture is
helpful for identification and comparison of many
food items. For example, to identify whether the
cocoa listed is powder or prepared, you could check
the water value, which is much less for cocoa
powder. Values are in grams or milligrams except
for water, calories, and vitamin A.
Food energy is reported as calories. A calorie is the
unit of measure for the amount of energy that
protein, fat, and carbohydrate furnish the body.
Alcohol also contributes to the calorie content of
alcoholic beverages. The official unit of
measurement for food energy is actually
kilocalories (kcal), but the term “calories” is
commonly used in its place. In fact, “calories” is
used on the food label.