1Introduction
An 8-oz glass of milk, a 3-oz slice of cooked meat,
an apple, a slice of bread. What food values does
each contain? How much cooked meat will a pound
of raw meat yield? How much protein should a
healthy 14-year-old boy get each day?
Consumers want ready answers to questions like
these so they can plan nutritious diets for
themselves and their families. Also, nutritionists,
dietitians, and other health professionals use this
type of information in their daily work.
In response, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
published the first edition of this bulletin in 1960.
USDA nutrition researchers have revised it many
times since to reflect our expanded knowledge, to
add or subtract specific values, and to update the
ever-growing list of available, commonly used
foods.
Further Information
The USDA Nutrient Database for Standard
Reference is a more technical compilation of
nutrient information, with data for a much more
extensive list of foods and nutrients than this
publication provides. It is revised regularly and
published on the USDA Nutrient Data Laboratory
(NDL) web site, <www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/
foodcomp>. It replaces USDA’s Agriculture
Handbook 8, “Composition of Foods. . .Raw,
Processed, Prepared,” commonly referred to as
“Handbook 8,” and its revised sections, which are
out of print. Special-interest tables—such as
Isoflavone Content of Foods—are also published
on the NDL web site.
The USDA Nutrient Database for Standard
Reference and special-interest tables produced by
NDL are also available on CD-ROM from the U.S.
Government Printing Office (GPO). See the back
of the title page for contact information.Other nutrition publications that may be useful
include “Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary
Guidelines for Americans,” USDA Home and
Garden Bulletin 232; “Making Healthy Food
Choices,” USDA Home and Garden Bulletin 250;
and “Check It Out: The Food Label, the Pyramid,
and You,” USDA Home and Garden Bulletin 266.
These publications may also be purchased from
GPO. See the back of the title page for contact
information.
The Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Food
Guide Pyramid can be found on USDA’s Center for
Nutrition Policy and Promotion web site,  <http://
www.usda.gov/cnpp>, or write to them at 3101
Park Center Dr., Room 1064, Alexandria, VA
22302-1594. Food label and other nutrition
information can be found on the Food and Drug
Administration’s Center for Food Safety and
Applied Nutrition web site, <http://
vm.cfsan.fda.gov/label.html>, or write to them at
200 C Street, SW, Washington, DC 20204.
Full texts of the Recommended Dietary Allowances
and each volume of Dietary Reference Intakes are
available from the National Academy Press, at
www.nap.edu or 888-624-8373 (toll free).
For more information about food and nutrition, visit
the USDA-ARS National Agricultural Library’s
Food and Nutrition Information Center <http://
www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/>, or contact them at 10301
Baltimore Ave., Room 304, Beltsville, MD 20705-
2351, Phone: 301-504-5719, Fax: 301-504-6409,
TTY: 301-504-6856, e-mail: fnic@nal.usda.gov.
Another source of information on the Internet is
<www.nutrition.gov>.by Susan E. Gebhardt and Robin G. Thomas, U.S. Department of Agriculture,
Agricultural Research Service, Nutrient Data Laboratory, Beltsville, MarylandNutritive Value of Foods