Soy beans  
Glycine max 11
Soy (soya) is a pivotal part of the world’s food system. High in protein, soy has transcended 
its Asian origins to become the most widely grown legume across the globe. Cultivated 
for well over 9,000 years, soy was regarded by the ancient Chinese as a necessity 
for life. It was eaten as a source of protein and crushed for its oil, which now 
accounts for a large proportion of global vegetable oil consumption.
Soy’s nutritional value makes it an undoubtedly powerful food. Raw soy 
beans contain 38 grams of protein per 100 grams20, which is similar to 
pork and three times more than an egg. In fact, soy – which delivers 
more protein per hectare than any other crop – also contains vitamin 
K and B in addition to significant amounts of iron, manganese, 
phosphorus, copper, potassium, magnesium, zinc, selenium and 
calcium. Nutrient-packed soy comes in a variety of products and 
formats including tofu, soy milk, miso, tempeh and edamame.  
Despite its versatility and nutritional value, three-quarters of all 
soy produced is not for human consumption, but rather for animal 
feed21. It takes a high volume of soy as animal feed to produce 
only a small amount of meat, which highlights the inefficiency in 
the food system. Poultry is the number one livestock sector that 
consumes soy beans followed by pork, dairy and beef22.   
The current and predicted steady increase in meat consumption poses 
major challenges to sustainable soy production. Cultivation of soy may 
drive deforestation, damaging natural ecosystems such as the Amazon, 
Cerrado and Chaco – home to spectacular wildlife like jaguars, giant 
anteaters and armadillos.
Progress is being made. The negative impact of soy production has been slowed 
by collaborative market initiatives like the Amazon Soy Moratorium, reducing soy-
driven deforestation levels in the Amazon rainforest to almost zero. Unilever, Knorr’s 
parent company, is actively working with other industries and NGO stakeholders to call for 
a halt in conversion of the Cerrado. Unilever is leading by example by buying sustainably certified 
soy oil for their products, such as Hellmann’s mayonnaise, and by 
actively promoting sustainable sourcing standards.  
Ultimately, lowering the demand for soy as animal feed is 
a critical lever for reducing the deforestation caused by soy 
production. Shifting to more plant-based foods, including soy, 
will help to reduce the demand for soy as animal feed, taking 
pressure off fragile ecosystems, while increasing availability of 
nutritious sources of protein.
Category Beans & Pulses
16FUTURE 50 FOODS