Although not a commonly known crop in many parts of the world, Bambara groundnuts 
are the third most important legume in Africa, after peanuts and cowpeas. It is a 
legume but tastes like, and is eaten like, a nut. It has gained interest amongst 
many sustainable food experts because it is an underutilised, nutritious crop  
that can grow in challenging environments, even in highly acidic soils.
Local African names for Bambara groundnuts include jugo beans, ditloo 
marapo, indlubu, hlanga, njugo, nduhu, phonda, and tindhluwa.  
The name Bambara groundnut originates from the Bambara tribe that 
lives throughout Mali, Burkina Faso, Guinea and Senegal. They are 
grown mainly across these regions in sub-Saharan Africa and  
more scarcely in South Africa. They are also cultivated across 
Southeast Asia, primarily in southern Thailand, West Java and  
parts of Malaysia15, 16. 
Growing Bambara groundnuts has many advantages, making 
them a model sustainable crop. It has nitrogen-fixing nodules, 
which means the roots fix nitrogen from the air which the plant uses 
as a fertiliser to produce the nutritious bean. Some of the nitrogen 
is returned to the soil, thereby improving fertility and helping boost 
yields when intercropped with other plants. In Malaysia, Bambara 
groundnuts are grown to support the growth of delicate young trees 
on its rubber plantations.
Bambara groundnuts also boast an impressive nutrient profile, from 
the perspective of both the farmer and the consumer, with their unique 
combination of carbohydrates, protein, fibre and many vitamins and 
minerals. They have less fat than peanuts, allowing them to have a higher 
concentration of nutrients per calorie. Compared with other legumes they have 
a high amount of the essential amino acid methionine. The Bambara groundnut is 
considered ‘complete food’ because of the balance of macronutrients accompanied by 
the amino acid and fatty acid content.
Bambara groundnuts can be boiled, roasted, fried or milled into a fine flour. The pods are hard and need to 
be cracked open to get the edible seed. They are often boiled to make them easier to open and the seeds are 
eaten as snacks, either plain or with a seasoning. In East Africa the beans are roasted and puréed to be used 
as a base for soups. Their flavour is similar to peanuts but a bit sweeter and not as oily17. This versatile, resilient 
legume deserves to take a prime spot on your plate.
Category Beans & Pulses
Bambara groundnuts/Bambara beans 
Vigna subterranea6
13
50 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET1350 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET