Category Beans & Pulses
Adzuki beans
Black turtle beans
Broad beans (fava beans)Vigna angularis
Phaseolus vulgaris
Vicia faba3
4
5Adzuki beans are rising in popularity due to 
their versatility, nutritional content and flavour. 
Small and brownish-red, they are the nutrient-
rich fruit of drought-tolerant plants, meaning 
they require less water than many other crops 
and can produce high yields, even on dry land.
They are commonly enjoyed in Japan and 
other parts of Asia, thanks to their mild and 
sweet, slightly nutty taste and reputed health 
benefits. They are full of antioxidants14 and packed with protein. They also contain high 
levels of potassium, B vitamins and fibre.
Adzuki beans are often cooked, puréed and 
sweetened to make a paste that can be used 
as a filling in sweet treats, added to soups and 
mixed with rice as a tasty side dish. They are 
also great in salads and stir-fries.
These powerhouses of the legume family are 
regularly listed as ‘superfoods’ due to their high 
protein and fibre content.
Particularly popular in Latin American cooking, 
black beans are small and shiny with a subtly 
sweet, mushroom-like flavour. Their dense, 
meaty texture makes them perfect for stews 
and curries, or as a substitute for ground beef 
in any dish.They are often combined with grains like 
brown rice or quinoa, seasoned with onions, 
garlic and spices and served as a side dish, 
or topped with vegetables for a full meal. 
Whether bought canned or dried, the water 
used to store or cook the beans can be added 
to dishes for extra earthy flavour. 
When in bloom, the sweet-scented flowers of 
the broad bean plant call to honeybees – the 
vital pollinators responsible for one in three 
mouthfuls of food. Broad beans also function 
as a cover crop, grown between harvests to 
protect the land. Cover crops help supress 
weeds, enrich the soil and control pests. These 
hardy and adaptable plants can grow in most 
soils and climates. The beautiful green beans have a sweet, 
grassy taste and buttery texture. They are 
protected by a pod that can be eaten raw 
when the plant is young. As the plant ages, the 
pod hardens and is not commonly consumed 
due to its texture and bitter flavour. They make 
a nice protein and fibre-packed addition to 
risottos, soups and stews. They are also great 
as a side dish seasoned with rosemary, thyme 
and pepper.
FUTURE 50 FOODS
12FUTURE 50 FOODS
12