Lentils
Marama beans  
Mung beansLens culinaris
Tylosema esculentum
Vigna radiata8
9
10Originally from North Africa and Asia, this 
cousin of the pea was one of the world’s first 
cultivated crops. Requiring little water to grow, 
lentils have a carbon footprint 43 times lower 
than that of beef19.
There are dozens of varieties, all with slightly 
different earthy, peppery or sweet flavours. 
Lentils are packed with protein, fibre and 
carbohydrates. Puy lentils keep their shape and texture after cooking and are often served 
with fish or roasted vegetables. Red and 
yellow lentils dissolve into a rich purée and are 
delicious mixed into stews, curries and soups. 
They are also used to make veggie burgers. All 
lentils are simple to cook; pre-soak if necessary, 
then boil in water or stock/broth (three to one 
ratio of water to lentils) for 15 to 20 minutes  
for whole lentils and five to seven minutes for 
split lentils.
Native to the Kalahari Desert in southern 
Africa, marama beans and their edible 
tuberous roots are drought-tolerant and  
adapt well to harsh environments and 
damaged soils. They are thought to be an 
ancient food, eaten for as long as people have 
been in southern Africa and are now being 
successfully cultivated in Australia and the US.Their oil, which is a good source of essential  
fatty acids, can be used for cooking as well  
as a dressing. Marama beans themselves can 
be boiled or ground into flour. They can also  
be used to make a milk drink. When roasted, 
they taste similar to cashews, making them a 
great addition to stir-fries, curries and other 
cooked dishes.
Originally from Southeast Asia, mung beans 
were first grown in the US in the 19th century 
as livestock feed. Today, these tiny, tender 
beans are prized by people in Asia and beyond 
for their crisp, clean taste and ability to absorb 
flavours. They also contain protein, B vitamins 
and various minerals.
Natural nitrogen-fixers, the plants thrive in 
sunny conditions and are considered heat  
and drought-tolerant.Mung beans are great with noodles, rice 
dishes, curries and stir-fries. They can even be 
scrambled like eggs or puréed to resemble ice 
cream. Their sprouts are nutritious too, adding 
crunch to salads and sandwiches with their 
sweet but earthy flavour.Category Beans & Pulses
1550 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET