Amaranth
Buckwheat
Finger milletAmaranthus
Fagopyrum esculentum
Eleusine coracana13
14
15Amaranth is grown for both its seeds and 
leaves. The fibre-rich grain is prepared in 
boiling water, like rice, or popped like corn.  
Its leaves are a staple food in Asia and Africa 
and are eaten in the same ways as other  
leafy green vegetables. 
The plant that the amaranth seed comes 
from can be grown at any elevation without 
needing a lot of water, making it an ideal  
crop in areas where water is scarce.Believed to have been first cultivated in 
Mexico, amaranth is one of the oldest crops, 
beloved by the Aztecs and Incas for its 
suspected supernatural properties. 
Relative to other grains, amaranth’s sandy 
yellow seed is high in magnesium and 
protein. It has a mild, slightly nutty taste and 
gelatinous texture making it ideal for soups, 
side dishes and risottos. 
Buckwheat is one of the healthiest, nuttiest 
and most versatile grains. It is a short season 
crop, maturing in just eight to twelve weeks, 
and grows well in both acidic and under-
fertilised soils. It can also be used as a ‘cover 
crop’ or ‘smother crop’ to help keep weeds 
down and reduce soil erosion while fields  
rest during crop rotation. Contrary to its name, buckwheat is not related 
to wheat and is gluten-free. It is an ideal 
higher protein swap for flour in pastas and 
breads. It can also be a great alternative to 
rice, is ideal cooked in a broth or stock, and 
can be used in salads or stuffing. It is popular 
in Russia and Eastern European countries and 
is commonly eaten in stews, such as ‘goulash’, 
with potatoes, vegetables and meat. 
Finger millet is a cereal that has been 
cultivated for thousands of years since it was 
first domesticated from the wild subspecies 
in the highlands that range from Uganda to 
Ethiopia. A member of the grass family, it is 
now farmed more widely in the arid regions  
of Africa and South Asia as a staple cereal28. 
Although the diverse group of crops known  
as millets is among one of the most consumed, 
finger millet is often overlooked by the world at 
large as it only makes up around ten percent 
of global millet production. As a crop, it has 
many benefits. It can thrive in soils of low fertility and can be intercropped with maize, 
sorghum and legumes. It has a higher natural 
resistance to insects than similar crops, leading 
to higher yields with less dependence on 
pesticide use. Of all major cereals, millet is one 
of the most nutritious. It is a good source of 
fibre and vitamin B1 and is rich in minerals.
Finger millet is most commonly eaten and 
used in the same way as other grains or 
cereals. It can be eaten as porridge, or milled 
into flour and used in bread or pancakes. It has 
a mild flavour that’s slightly nuttier than quinoa 
and has a similar texture to couscous.Category Cereals & Grains
FUTURE 50 FOODS
21FUTURE  50 FOODS
21