Fonio 
Digitaria exilis 16
Arguably Africa’s oldest cultivated cereal, fonio is a grain known for its nutty, delicate 
taste and versatility. The Bambara people of Mali have a saying that ‘fonio never 
embarrasses the cook’ as it is so easy to prepare and can be used in dishes to 
replace any grain.  
Fonio has been around for more than 5,000 years. Evidence shows it was 
cultivated in ancient Egypt; today it is mainly grown in the dry Sahel region 
of West Africa. There are two cultivated species: Digitaria exilis, white 
fonio, and Digitaria iburua, black fonio.
Fonio is drought-resistant and has the ability to grow in sandy or 
acidic soil. Its roots help to secure topsoil to prevent the spread of 
deserts and it’s one of the world’s fastest-maturing grains, growing 
in 60 to 70 days. Fonio is nicknamed the ‘lazy farmer’s crop’ 
because it is so easy to grow. Farmers simply scatter the seeds after 
the first rain and wait for harvest. This traditional method yields 
about 0.5 to 1.2 tonnes per hectare. However, up to two tonnes per 
hectare can be harvested under very good agronomic conditions. 
The main challenge when cultivating fonio is turning the grain into 
food. Fonio grains are as tiny as sand and each must have their 
inedible covers removed. Farmers spend large amounts of time 
threshing and dehulling, most of which is still done manually.  
Current annual fonio production is estimated at 600,000 tonnes 
globally, of which more than 95 percent is consumed within fonio-
growing communities. 
To reduce the manual labour and increase processing capacity, a company 
called Yolélé Foods is building the world’s first fonio mill. The company, which was 
co-founded by Pierre Thiam, who is seen as a leading authority on African food in 
the United States, currently exports fonio to the United States and Canada. Once the 
mill is finalised in late 2020 in Senegal, the company plans to begin fonio exportation to 
other parts of the world. 
Fonio is gluten-free and highly nutritious, containing iron, zinc, magnesium and phytonutrients. Fonio can be 
used in salads, crackers, pastas, and even in baked goods. It can be used in place of oats to make hot cereal, 
in place of couscous or rice in any dish and is delicious mixed with spices and olive oil as a side dish. It also can 
be used to brew beer. Category Cereals & Grains
22
50 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET2250 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET