OUR WORLD IS FACING AN 
UNPRECEDENTED CHALLENGE
By 2050 the world population is predicted to 
increase to almost ten billion people whom we must 
nourish on a planet of finite resources. It is well-
documented that to do this we need to transform 
our global food system – from the way we farm 
and fish to what we choose to eat. It is a complex 
task, and if we are to deliver nutritious food to all, 
everyone needs to play a part in making the food 
system more sustainable. Large scale, practical 
solutions are essential to make the required changes.
Globally we rely on a small range of foods. This 
negatively impacts our health and the health of 
the planet. Seventy-five percent of the global food 
supply comes from only 12 plant and five animal 
species. Just three (rice, maize, wheat) make up 
nearly 60 percent of calories from plants in the 
entire human diet1. This excludes many valuable 
sources of nutrition. While people may be getting 
sufficient calories, these narrow diets don’t provide 
enough vitamins and minerals. 
Dietary monotony is linked to a decline in the 
diversity of plants and animals used in and  
around agriculture (agrobiodiversity), threatening 
the resilience of our food system and limiting the 
breadth of food we can eat. Since 1900,  
a staggering 75 percent of the genetic plant 
diversity in agriculture has been lost2. In most  
Asian countries, the number of rice types grown 
has decreased rapidly from thousands to a dozen. 
In Thailand, for example, the 16,000 varieties once 
cultivated have dropped to just 37 varieties3. In 
the past century, the United States has lost 80 percent of its cabbage, pea and tomato varieties. 
This dependence on a limited pool of crop species 
leaves harvests vulnerable to pests, diseases and 
the impact of climate change.   
Farming a narrow range of crops using intensive 
methods can have serious repercussions on our 
fragile natural ecosystems. Monoculture farming, 
which is the repeated harvesting of a single crop, 
and over-reliance on animal-based foods are 
threatening food security. Monoculture farming 
can deplete nutrients and leave soil vulnerable to 
the build-up of pests and pathogens. This requires 
applications of fertilisers and pesticides that can, 
if used inappropriately, damage wildlife and 
leach into water systems4, 5. Many types of birds, 
animals and wild plants cannot thrive in biologically 
degraded landscapes. 
Reliance on animal-based protein sources puts 
additional strain on our environment and current 
agricultural practices are not sustainable in the 
long term. Total agriculture accounts for around 
a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions, of 
which approximately 60 percent is due to animal 
agriculture6. Meat, dairy and egg production is more 
water, land and greenhouse gas intensive than 
plant production. It also contributes to pollution 
through liquid waste discharged into rivers and seas. 
These problems seem insurmountable, but we 
believe that large scale change starts with  
small actions.“Most of us might believe it’s 
our energy or transport choices 
that cause the most serious 
environmental damage. In fact,  
it’s our food system that creates 
the biggest impact.”
Dr. Tony Juniper, CBE,  
Executive Director for Advocacy, WWF-UK
“Diversified diets not only 
improve human health but 
benefit the environment through 
diversified production systems 
that encourage wildlife and more 
sustainable use of resources.”
Peter Gregory, Research Advisor,  
Crops For the FutureEATING TO IMPROVE  
THE FOOD SYSTEM
350 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET