Quinoa 
Chenopodium quinoa 18
Quinoa has long been a staple food in South America but has been gaining popularity  
in Europe and the US since the early 2000s, marketed as a healthier, tastier 
replacement for rice. 
The sudden surge in demand for one type of quinoa forced farmers to take  
measures to rapidly increase yield, to the detriment of land, trees, soil and 
water use. Quinoa, like any food, can and should be grown following 
sustainable practices and, compared with similar crops, doesn’t require 
any more resources. 
There are over 3,000 varieties of quinoa. However, the demand to 
date has been for only a few types, which has caused the farmers 
to stop growing many others. This has resulted in environmental 
degradation and damaged soil, because the land was not left to 
fallow (rest between harvests). 
There are now incentives in place for farmers to grow less common 
types of quinoa and programmes to encourage their consumption 
in schools and restaurants. This popularity has opened global 
trade opportunities for farmers and benefitted local economies 
enormously. The quinoa case stresses the importance of growing 
and eating a wide variety of grains and cereals to help decrease the 
reliance on any one specific type.
Botanically, quinoa is not a cereal but is a relative of spinach, beets and 
chard. It is a hardy plant that can tolerate frosts, droughts and high winds, 
and requires little fertilisation. This means it can grow in diverse climates and 
terrains, including areas with minimal irrigation or as little as three to four inches 
of annual rainfall. The most commonly cultivated and exported types of quinoa 
are white, red and black. The texture varies between them, but the flavour and uses 
remain largely the same. 
Quinoa is a complete protein as it contains all nine of the essential amino acids. It is gluten-free 
and contains an exceptional balance of protein, fat, minerals and vitamins30.
In Bolivia and Peru, quinoa is mainly eaten in stews and soups. It is easy to prepare as a rice substitute by 
bringing it to the boil in stock or water, then reducing to a simmer until the liquid is absorbed. It can replace 
rice in many dishes, such as pilafs, stuffings, salads and even veggie burgers, giving a nutty flavour and 
enhancing texture. It can also be ground and used in breads and even pastas. 
Category Cereals & Grains
24
50 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET2450 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET