Pumpkin flowers
Orange tomatoesOkraCucurbita pepo
Solanum lycopersicumAbelmoschus esculentus22
2423Both pumpkin leaves and flowers are not only 
edible, but highly nutritious and delicious. The 
female flowers have tiny fruit attached which 
can form a pumpkin, while the male flowers 
don’t. The combination of mild pumpkin 
taste and soft texture make them the perfect 
addition to soups, sauces, salads and pasta 
dishes. Like other cucurbits, pumpkins grow best in rich, well-drained soil in the hot, humid 
climates of Egypt, Mexico, India, parts of the 
US, China and Ukraine. It is recommended to 
discard the centre of the flower (the stamen) 
prior to prepration. The flowers are rich in 
many nutrients, including vitamin C. These 
precious flowers are often discarded, wasting a 
good source of nutrients and flavour.
Like all tomatoes, this small orange variety 
can be traced back to the tiny, perfectly round 
berries that grow wild in coastal Peru and the 
Galapagos Islands. That was before tomatoes 
were domesticated and their seeds brought 
back to Europe after Cortés conquered 
what would later be known as Mexico City 
in 1521. Now, red tomatoes are one of the 
most consumed vegetables globally. Orange 
tomatoes are sweeter and less acidic than 
their red relatives and contain up to twice as 
much vitamin A and folate (B vitamin) than 
other varieties (red, green).  
 Many are also ‘heirloom’ – genetically unique, 
making them more resistant to disease and 
pests. They can be used in the same way 
as the more familiar red varieties: in soups, 
to make sauces or chutney, or added to 
casseroles and stews. They’re also delicious 
roasted to bring out even more sweetness and 
can be eaten on their own as a snack. 
Eating less common varieties 
of vegetables, such as orange 
tomatoes, drives demand which will 
increase the variety of types of crops 
grown, which, in turn, makes the 
food system more resilient.Well suited to resist changes in climate, 
okra is among the most heat- and drought-
resistant vegetables in the world. It contains 
antioxidants, including beta-carotene, 
xeaxanthine, and lutein35. This slim, green seed 
pod goes by many names, including gumbo, 
bhindi and lady’s finger. It’s commonly used 
in the Caribbean and in areas of the world where Creole, Cajun and Asian cooking are 
popular. When cooked, the seeds produce a 
sticky, viscous liquid, which makes them ideal 
for thickening soups and stews. Okra can be 
steamed, stir-fried or grilled and pairs well with 
strong, spicy flavours and seasonings. Category Fruit  Vegetables
FUTURE 50 FOODS
29FUTURE 50 FOODS
29