Spelt
TeffTriticum spelta
Eragrostis tef19
20An ancient form of wheat, spelt is a hybrid of 
emmer wheat and goat grass. Due to its high 
carbohydrate content, the Romans called it 
the ‘marching grain’. 
It has a thick outer husk that helps to protect 
it from disease and pests, making it easier 
for farmers to grow without the need for 
fertilisers or pesticides. Compared to similar 
types of wheat, it contains more fibre, as well 
as higher concentrations of minerals, including 
magnesium, iron and zinc31.Spelt is often one of the components of farro, 
which is a mix of various types of wheat and 
is becoming more popular in some parts of 
Europe and North America. Whole or pearled, 
spelt should be boiled until tender. 
The mellow, nutty flavour makes it popular 
to use in place of rice in pilaf, risotto and side 
dishes. In Germany and Austria, using spelt 
flour to make breads and cakes is common 
and often preferred over other types of wheat. 
Known as ‘the next super grain’ the popularity 
of teff as a preferred grain has grown over the 
past few years. This has led many farmers in 
Europe and North America to begin growing 
teff to boost supply. 
This tiny grass seed is a long-standing staple in 
Ethiopia thanks to its nutritional value, as teff 
is a good source of iron, calcium, magnesium, 
manganese and phosphorous32. 
It is well suited to challenging climates, can 
cope with both drought and waterlogged soil, 
is easy to store and is pest-resistant33. This hardy little grain is being championed by 
the Ethiopian government, which is working 
to introduce new varieties and improve 
production methods.
In Ethiopia, teff is ground into flour and baked 
into the sourdough flatbread called injera. It 
can be used in ‘paap’ (South African porridge) 
instead of cornmeal as it offers a more enticing 
texture and has greater nutritional value.
The mild flavour means teff flour lends itself to 
any number of sweet and savoury dishes. The 
seeds can be steamed or boiled in stock or 
water to be served as a side dish or to bulk  
up dishes. Category Cereals & Grains
FUTURE 50 FOODS
25FUTURE 50 FOODS
25