Category
Broccoli rabe
KaleBrassica ruvo
Brassica oleracea var. sabellica26
27This cruciferous green is related to turnips and 
mustard greens, and not, perhaps surprisingly, 
to its familiar namesake. With long stems, 
small, broccoli-like flower heads and jagged, 
turnip-like leaves, broccoli rabe is peppery and 
slightly bitter. 
Broccoli rabe is higher in folate than both 
mustard greens and turnips and, like kale, is a 
source of vitamins A, C and K42.
Common in Italy, Portugal, Poland and 
Ukraine, broccoli rabe – or Italian broccoli as it’s also known – is easy to grow and can 
be harvested within seven to eight weeks 
of planting. The young, immature flower 
heads are the most commonly eaten parts; 
sometimes the flower heads are slightly 
sprouted and purple in colour.
Boil or sauté it with garlic and chilli. All parts of 
broccoli rabe are delicious paired with grains, 
nuts and other vegetables. It is often served as 
a side dish alongside fish and potatoes.
Kale is a brassica and belongs to the cabbage 
family. It is a hardy plant, able to withstand 
temperatures as low as -15 degrees Celsius. 
It has lushly dark leaves that can be curly or 
smooth and sometimes have a blue or purple 
tinge. The taste, distinct and slightly bitter, is 
reported to become sweeter when exposed  
to extreme cold such as a heavy frost, but 
more bitter and unpleasant in hot weather. 
Kale is grown throughout Europe and in the 
US, available year-round, and packed with 
vitamins A, K and C, as well as being a good 
source of manganese and copper. The leaves and stems can be eaten together. 
The stems are tough while the leaves are soft, 
so may require different cooking times. Kale 
can be eaten raw, roasted, boiled, sautéed 
or even grilled. Because of its high nutritional 
value, kale has been dried and turned in to 
powder to be added to soups and smoothies 
and made into chips eaten as a savoury snack. 
It can be enjoyed as a side dish or mixed with 
other vegetables in stews, curries, or soups. Leafy Greens
32
50 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET3250 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET