“The search for nutrient-dense 
plants has taken us toward 
ancient grains, heirloom plant 
varieties, and less commonly 
cultivated crops. There is a good 
reason for rediscovering some of 
the forgotten plants.”
Dr. Adam Drewnowski,  
Director of The Center for  
Public Health Nutrition,  
University of Washington
Knorr and WWF have a shared ambition to drive 
change, which is why we, in partnership with  
Dr. Adam Drewnowski, Director of The Center  
for Public Health Nutrition at the University  
of Washington, have collaborated to create  
The Future 50 Foods Report. 
In a world cluttered with advice and pressure 
around what not to eat, we want to provide 
people with more food choices to empower 
positive change. For this reason, we have 
identified 50 foods we should eat more of 
because they are nutritious, have a lower impact 
on our planet than animal-based foods, can be  
affordable, accessible and taste good.
The list of Future 50 Foods, consisting of 
vegetables, grains, cereals, seeds, legumes 
and nuts from across the globe, has been 
developed to inspire greater variety in what 
we cook and eat. It is intended to enable three 
important dietary shifts. First, a greater variety 
of vegetables to increase intake of vitamins, 
minerals and antioxidants. Second, plant-based 
sources of protein to replace meat, poultry and 
fish, resulting in reduced negative impact on our 
environment. Third, more nutrient-rich sources of 
carbohydrates to promote agrobiodiversity and 
provide more nutrients.  “By joining together with our 
partners, we believe we can 
shift the way food is grown and 
the foods people choose to eat, 
delivering significant, positive 
impact on the food system. 
Our mission is simple: make 
delicious, nutritious,  
and sustainable food 
accessible to all.”
April Redmond,  
Global Vice President, KnorrNot all 50 foods are currently easily accessible. 
Working together with partners allows us to 
make these foods more commonly grown and 
more widely eaten. 
By making a conscious choice to consume 
more of the Future 50 Foods, we take a crucial 
step towards improving the global food 
system. Swapping staples like maize and white 
rice for fonio or spelt increases the nutrient 
content of a dish while contributing to greater 
agrobiodiversity, making our food supply more 
resilient. It also helps safeguard these ancient 
variants for future generations. 
These 50 foods are some of the many  
that we can and should eat. According to
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations (FAO), there are between 20,000 and 
50,000 discovered edible plant species, of which 
only 150 to 200 are regularly consumed by humans7. 
Future 50 Foods is the beginning of a journey and a 
way for people to make a change, one delicious dish 
at a time.  
4FUTURE 50 FOODS