Spinach
WatercressSpinacia oleracea
Nasturtium officinale32
33American consumption of this bittersweet, 
leafy vegetable jumped by a third during the 
1930s. Spinach growers of the time credited 
this hike to Popeye, the cartoon character who 
was supposed to get his legendary strength 
from consuming cans of it. 
Although the powers of spinach were highly 
overstated by Popeye, this tender vegetable 
does contain many important nutrients. It is 
particularly high in vitamins A, C and K, folate (B vitamin) and contains iron, other minerals 
and phytonutrients44. A relative of beets, chard 
and quinoa, spinach is fast growing and suited 
to cooler climates where it can be cultivated 
all year round.
Eaten all over the world, spinach leaves can  
be steamed, sautéed or stir-fried and added 
to curries, soups, pasta dishes and stews.  
They can also be served on their own,  
as a side or fresh in salads.
Watercress, also known as nose twister, is 
related to mustard and is part of the brassica 
family of vegetables. Native to Europe and 
Asia, there is evidence of its existence in 
Ancient Greece up to 3,000 years ago. 
However, it wasn’t until the late 20th century 
that it became popular commercially. 
Today it is eaten in many countries and spans 
most continents. It prefers cool climates and 
can grow fully or partially submerged in water, 
or in rich, moist soil. If left to mature, the plant 
will produce pleasant-smelling white flowers, 
which attract bees. It also produces edible 
seeds, which it uses to self-sow.Considered a ‘superfood’ because of its high 
content of antioxidants (particularly beta 
carotene and vitamin C), watercress also 
contains significant amounts of vitamins A  
and K. Watercress has a pungent, slightly 
bitter, peppery taste and crisp texture. Both 
the delicate green leaves and paler stems can 
be eaten either sautéed or fresh, and are great 
mixed in soups, salads, tarts and omelettes. Category
 Leafy Greens
FUTURE 50 FOODS
3535FUTURE 50 FOODS