Pak-choi or bok-choy (Chinese cabbage)
Pumpkin leaves
Red cabbageBrassica rapa subsp. chinensis
Cucurbita pepo
Brassica oleracea var. capitata f. rubra29
30
31Pak-choi is crisp with a mild, cabbage-like 
flavour. Like lettuce but with more crunch, it is 
one of the most popular vegetables in China 
and is grown in East Asia all year round. It has 
a variety of different names, among them 
horse’s ear, Chinese celery cabbage and white 
mustard cabbage. Its white or pale-green 
stalks and deep-green leaves are high in vitamins K and C. Although the stalks can be 
eaten raw when the plant is very young, they 
are best blanched in boiling water, stir-fried or 
steamed to retain their delicate flavour and 
crunchy texture. Pak-choi goes well with rich, 
sticky sauces to complement the mild flavour 
and crunchy texture.
Although the leaves of this creeping vine 
are commonly eaten in Africa and Asia, the 
pumpkin plant is believed to have first been 
cultivated thousands of years ago in Central 
America. It belongs to the cucurbit family and 
loves sunny, well-drained soil. Pumpkin leaves 
are often left behind when pumpkins are 
picked, wasting the abundance of nutrients 
packed in to these versatile leafy greens. 
Pumpkins, like many other plants, have 
multiple edible parts that should not  
be wasted.Pumpkin leaves are a good source of iron, 
vitamin K and carotenoids. Although there is no  
scientific evidence to prove it, many associate 
the leaves with increased fertility. 
Pumpkin leaves taste like a cross between 
asparagus, broccoli and spinach and, when 
young, can be eaten fresh in salads. Steaming 
or sautéing the leaves brings out the sweetness 
as some varieties may have a more bitter 
flavour. In West Africa they are often added  
to soups and stews. 
It may be called red cabbage, but this brassica 
has a chameleon-like quality, changing colour 
based on the pH-value of the soil in which it 
is grown. It grows best in sunny conditions in 
moist, loamy soil. 
Most commonly grown in the Americas, 
Europe and China, red cabbage has an earthy, 
slightly peppery taste and crisp texture. It’s not only more colourful and hardier than green 
cabbage, but also has ten times more vitamin 
A and double the amount of iron. 
Red cabbage can be eaten raw or cooked 
in salads, stir-fries, in a sandwich or burger, 
or cooked with onions as a side dish. When 
cooked, the leaves will turn blue; add vinegar 
or acidic fruit to help maintain their red colour.Category Leafy Greens
34
50 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET343450 FOODS  FOR HEALTHIER PEOPLE AND A HEALTHIER PLANET