Category Nuts & Seeds
Flax seeds
Hemp seedsLinum usitatissimum
Cannabis sativa37
38Found across Europe, the United States, South 
America and Asia, but best grown in cooler 
climates with some sunlight, flax seeds have  
a multitude of uses. They are primarily used 
as a well-rounded, nutritious food source, but 
they can also be woven into strong fibres to 
create linen.
Flax seeds are considered a highly functional 
food owing to the presence of alpha-linolenic 
acid, an omega 3 fatty acid. Also known as linseeds, they have been widely cultivated 
since the early days of civilisation and can be 
used in place of half the flour in any baked 
good, including breads and muffins. 
Although they are commonly eaten on salads 
and cereals, they are now in high demand as 
an ingredient in vegetarian burger mixes and 
other plant-based dishes. Flax seed oil can be 
used for dressings, dips and sauces. 
Hemp is fast-growing, thrives in a variety of 
soils and doesn’t require fertilisers or pesticides. 
While not currently one of the most commonly-
consumed seeds, they have been a part of 
the diets of people in China and India for 
many centuries. They are the same species as 
cannabis (marijuana), but hemp seeds don’t 
contain THC, the compound that causes the 
drug-like effects of marijuana.
The small, crunchy seeds have a soft, buttery 
texture and are rich in omega 3 and omega 
6 fatty acids (good fats). They also contain 
protein, fibre and various vitamins and minerals, 
which justifies the recent re-discovery of these 
nutty flavoured seeds. A small serving of only 30 
grams provides one gram of fibre, nine grams of 
protein, and a good source of iron. Hemp seeds are available in various forms: 
as oil, a milk substitute, flour and in many 
products (including dips, sauces, soups, 
crackers, biscuits, breads and salads). They can 
be eaten raw, made into hemp meal, sprouted 
or made into powder. 
Hemp was one of the first plants to be spun 
into usable fibre, roughly 10,000 years ago. It 
goes beyond being a nutritional food source, 
as it can be refined into paper, renewable 
plastic, clothes and biofuel46.
FUTURE 50 FOODS
40FUTURE 50 FOODS
40