Enoki mushrooms
Flammulina velutipes 34
Known as winter mushrooms or golden 
needles, these long, thin, delicate mushrooms 
grow all year round in wild clusters. Eaten 
commonly in East Asian countries such as 
China, Japan and Vietnam, from where they 
originate, they can be found on Chinese 
hackberry trees as well as mulberry, persimmon 
and ash trees. Enoki mushrooms were one of the first 
mushrooms studied for cancer prevention 
(effect not proven to date) and are widely used 
in soups and salads. To keep their texture and 
enhance their lovely umami flavour, they need 
to be cooked quickly, either flash fried, briefly 
pan roasted or bathed in the residual heat of  
stews or stir-fries.
Saffron milk cap mushrooms
Lactarius deliciosus 36
In Russia, where mushroom picking, cooking 
and eating is a big part of the culture, tourists 
may find themselves being offered saffron 
milk cap tasting as an activity. In Siberia, 
saffron milk caps are used for treating a 
wide variety of conditions, such as asthma, 
jaundice and food poisoning. However, these 
benefits have not been scientifically proven. 
Milk caps grow in pine forests in Europe and 
North America and are picked between 
August and October. Their name comes from their beautiful saffron 
colour and the orange milky liquid they ooze 
from their gills when cut. They are a good 
source of fibre with a nutty, woody taste that 
has hints of umami and a meaty texture. 
They can be fried in olive oil with garlic, 
parsley, cream or red wine. They can also be 
marinated, salted or pickled, or added to 
stews and soups. They feature in risottos and 
pasta dishes served in various restaurants 
across Europe and North America.Maitake mushrooms
Grifola frondosa 35
This hefty, layered fungi can grow to more 
than 45 kilograms (99 pounds) giving them 
the title ‘the king of mushrooms’. They can 
be found sitting at the base of oak, elm and 
maple trees in China, Japan and parts of the 
US. It has been eaten and used for its (not 
proven) medicinal properties for many years 
in China and Japan, where its name means 
‘dancing mushroom’. Like other varieties of mushrooms, maitake are 
noted for their B vitamin content and for being 
a non-animal source of vitamin D. In contrast 
to their delicate, feathery texture, they have 
a strong, earthy taste and can significantly 
enrich the flavours of other foods in various 
types of dishes. They are delicious cooked 
with olive oil, or as a featured ingredient in 
omelettes, hot pots, stir-fries, stews and sauces. Category Mushrooms
FUTURE 50 FOODS
37FUTURE 50 FOODS
37