Category Tubers
Lotus root
Ube (purple yam)
Yam bean root (jicama)Nelumbo nucifera
Dioscorea alata
Pachyrhizus erosus47
48
49The roots of the delicately beautiful lotus 
flower are incredibly resilient. They can grow 
and flourish in most bodies of water and 
replant their own seeds, which can be stored 
and survive for decades. The oldest examples 
found in China date back more than 1,000 
years and could still be germinated today. These edible roots have long been treasured 
as food and for their suspected medicinal 
properties. High in vitamin C52, they have a 
crunchy texture and a tangy, slightly sweet 
flavour. A great addition to most dishes where 
vegetables can be added, they’re commonly 
used in Asian stir-fries, but can also be  
deep-fried, braised or pickled. 
Ube, a purple yam native to the Philippines, 
has been increasing in popularity around the 
world. It is a tuberous-rooted, herbaceous 
perennial vine that is easily grown. It is more 
nutritious and grows faster than many other 
types of yams. Because of this it is known as 
a ‘famine crop’ in the tropical and subtropical 
regions of the world. 
Ube is rich in vitamin E and fibre, and has 
a sweet flavour. Its attractive purple shade 
comes from the flavonoid anthocyanin53. In the Philippines ube is often eaten boiled, 
baked, or as a sweetened pudding called ube 
halayá. Ube can prepared in the same way 
as potatoes. It is sold fresh, cut into cubes, in 
syrup, puréed or powdered. 
Despite its increase in popularity, the space 
allotted for ube cultivation has declined. This is 
due to an increase in tourism and real estate 
on the island of Panglao, where ube has been 
grown in the past. In other areas it has been 
replaced with sweet potato or cassava.
There are many benefits to the yam bean 
root, also known as jicama. It is a high-yield 
plant that grows easily in both tropical and 
arid climates. Even in the driest areas it 
produces 35 tonnes per hectare, reaching up 
to 75 tonnes per hectare in ideal conditions. 
This makes jicama a great swap for white 
potatoes, which yield a maximum of just 25 
tonnes per hectare. Growing yam bean also 
helps to promote soil fertility through nitrogen 
fixation and it can be grown in rotation with, 
or alongside, maize and beans. Jicama is a low-calorie food that is a source of vitamin C 
and fibre. Its significant water content makes 
it juicy and refreshing. With a starchy, slightly 
sweet flavour, it is typically eaten fresh and 
sliced to add crunch to salads or as a snack.  
It can be used in place of, or in addition to, 
other vegetables in stir-fries and is a lower 
calorie, more nutritious alternative to potato 
fries or chips. 
Note that only the root or tuber part of the 
yam bean root should be eaten.THE FUTURE 50 FOODS
5050FUTURE 50 FOODS