Category Root Vegetables
Black salsify
Parsley root
White icicle radish (winter radish)Scorzonera hispanica
Petroselinum crispum
Raphanus sativus var. Longipinnatus41
42
43Not widely known, this parsnip-like root 
vegetable is part of the sunflower family50.  
It is also known as the ‘oyster plant’ because 
of its sweet, slightly musky taste. The pale, 
creamy flesh beneath their thick, dark skin is 
great to cook with. Salsify is high in fibre and 
contains vitamin E and iron. It grows well in  
 cool, temperate climates in countries such as 
France, the Netherlands and Germany.
It can be boiled, mashed or baked, and served 
in place of a potato. Similar to carrots and 
parsnips, black salsify is ideal roasted, and 
goes well with soups and stews.
It is said that parsley root first made its 
appearance in the 15th century as the main 
ingredient in a Dutch vegetable stew. Known 
also as Dutch parsley, this taproot vegetable 
has an aromatic taste somewhere between 
celeriac, carrot and, inevitably, parsley.
Slim and tapered in shape with beige skin, 
parsley root looks like parsnip and can grow up to six inches long. It’s great fried as fritters 
or chips, or grated raw into salads and slaws. 
Both the taproot and leaves are edible and 
high in vitamin C. 
Popular in the cuisines of Central and Eastern 
Europe, parsley root is grown all year round 
in India, China, Vietnam, Nigeria and the 
Philippines and is resistant to drought.
In Greek, the word radish can be translated as 
‘fast appearing’ and is certainly true of these 
white icicle radishes, whose seeds germinate 
and grow to maturity in under a month. As 
they deter squash-loving bugs, they’re often 
planted with squash and pumpkins, and can 
be used as a fallow (or cover) crop to help 
enrich soil between harvests.
White icicle radishes look like carrots and grow 
four to six inches long, although their thin skin 
is cream coloured and their flesh is white. They have a milder, more peppery taste than their 
diminutive and more common red cousins. 
Tasty grilled, braised or roasted, they are also 
enjoyed grated or sliced fresh into salads, stir-
fries, curries and soups to add crunch. In some 
countries, such as France, they are boiled, 
coated in oil or butter, lightly spiced and 
eaten as a side dish. They can also be eaten 
raw as a snack.
White icicle radishes contain vitamin C and 
have the benefit of helping with digestion.
FUTURE 50 FOODS
4444FUTURE 50 FOODS
