92
Food consumption in the UK
1. Scoping
2. Conducting searches
3. Screening 
4. Extraction and quality review
5. Analysis.
An overview of the range and nature of the 
literature included is provided in Section A.7. 
Finally, in Section A.8 we set out some caveats 
and limitation of the approach.
Scoping
In order to finalise and refine the study methodology and approach, the study team engaged with Defra, an expert advisory group and wider stakeholders. We aimed to ensure the focus and remit of the review addresses policy issues of interest to key actors, does not duplicate other ongoing efforts, and provides useful and actionable outputs and evidence to support policy and decision making. 
We engaged with 17 stakeholders, including: 
stakeholders from industry, consumer groups, charities, and policymakers likely to have an interest in the outcomes of this work; and academic experts. The aim of this engagement process was to: (1) understand the existing policy and research landscape in this area; (2) identify other ongoing work within Defra in order to ensure that this study is complementary to other efforts; (3) identify evidence that would support decision makers outside of Defra; and (4) discuss key issues, topics of interest and any areas of controversy we should be aware of. The interviews with non-academic stakeholders in particular were used to identify any sources of non-academic literature, surveys and information, and new and emerging trends we should be aware of. 
Interviews were conducted by telephone and 
lasted up to one hour. The interviews were semi-structured, thereby ensuring a similar set of questions were asked of all interviewees but allowing for emergent issues to be explored. Table 7 lists the industry, consumer and policy stakeholder organisations we spoke with.
At inception, we also held telephone meetings 
with four of our expert advisors and a face-to-face workshop with one (Table 8). The aim of these meetings was to collect input on our study design, with a particular focus on:
• The scope, focus and coverage of our literature review and conceptual framework.
• Existing key sources that should be included in the literature review.
• Examples of relevant interventions that may not be codified in the literature (e.g. new and emerging initiatives).
• Key stakeholders from government, industry, charities and the private sector in this area that we should consult.