xii
Food consumption in the UK
other needs are satisfied (e.g. price, availability 
and quality). This gap also arises because individuals feel a lack of agency with regard to certain issues in a food system dominated by large, powerful food actors. Wider socio-economic changes can also contribute to this gap – for example, during economic crises some consumers are likely to shift their consumption towards less socially responsible, cheaper products.
Reflecting on the range of personal differences, 
segmentation approaches can be useful to analyse differences in consumption patterns; however, these are typically specific to a particular study context, the specific variables included in the analysis or driven by commercial motivations, and are not necessarily generalisable across the population or able to predict behaviour. While understanding this diversity can be useful to inform thinking and communication strategies, use of segmentation in policy design and implementation has limitations. 
Interventions – how can 
policymakers influence food consumption decisions?
Interventions can help to change food 
consumption so that it is more healthy, ethical and sustainable. For the purpose of this study, interventions were grouped into three overarching categories. Table 1 provides a 
summary of interventions and evidence of their effectiveness.
Knowledge and information:  This 
covers interventions that affect the knowledge and information available to people about food, from 
advertising to labelling. Overall, interventions 
2 While there is no formal definition, ‘food deserts’ can be defined as areas with a low density of supermarkets selling 
good-quality fresh produce and nutritious food (The University of Sheffield, 2018).that affect knowledge and information can help to raise awareness about healthy, sustainable and ethical diets but they do not necessarily translate into behaviour change. In general, more targeted, accessible and understandable information is most effective at changing consumption, be it through mass media campaigns or food labels. For example, nutritional front-of-pack labels can improve the consumption of healthier food, and traffic light approaches (that provide information in a clear and interpretive format) appear to be the most effective. Food labelling in restaurants can also reduce the number of calories consumed. However, evidence also suggests that use of labels may be restricted to certain groups with a higher income and education level, and thus may serve to widen health inequalities.
Food environment: This covers 
interventions that change the food environment, from small changes to the layout and prominence of 
food, to the types of food available in places people spend a lot of time, like at work and in school. There is increasing evidence to suggest that the ability of individuals to make healthy choices is limited by the availability of food through the built and micro environments. There have been limited attempts to develop interventions that attempt to change the food environment or address ‘food deserts’
2 
by changing the density or prevalence of food outlets and availability of healthy foods. Interventions to address the micro environment through ‘nudges’ – changing the placement of food in supermarkets or portion sizes – may be effective in certain contexts (e.g. schools and supermarkets). However, in general, good-quality academic studies around the effects of environmental interventions in ‘real-world’ settings are lacking.