xvi
Food consumption in the UK
Reflections – what does the 
evidence say about food consumption in the UK, and what should policymakers do next?
There are a number of observations on food 
consumption in the UK arising from the evidence in the literature. 
A minority of individuals are more sustainable 
and ethical in their consumption but, overall, UK consumption still falls well short of nutritional guidelines.  Although there have 
been reduction in the consumption of salt, sugar and red meat within the last ten years, there has been little change in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and fibre, with high consumption of processed foods. Although survey evidence indicates an increase in the purchase of sustainable and ethical produce, such as Fairtrade and RSPCA Assured products, this likely represents a small minority of the population. Moreover, a common challenge when conducting research on food preferences and drivers of food consumption is the value-action gap – whereby individuals do not necessarily act in line with their stated beliefs.
There are predictable socio-economic 
differences in the consumption of a healthy diet but the impact of wider socio-demographic differences is less clear. Socio-economic status (e.g. income and education level) is the single most important predictor of the consumption of a healthy diet. Other socio-demographic factors such as age and gender influence consumption too, although the evidence around these is less clear. However, all groups continue to consume an unhealthy diet. Table 2 summarises the availability of 
evidence in the literature on socio-demographic differences in food consumption practices.
The food environment is becoming 
increasingly diverse and fragmented but the impact of this on consumption is not well understood.  Digitalisation is diversifying the 
channels through which individuals purchase food, with supermarket and other home delivery services in particular (e.g. vegetable boxes, Hello Fresh and Amazon Fresh) increasing in popularity. The out-of-home sector, partly driven by digitalisation, is also increasingly significant, with impacts on what individuals consume. However, there is currently a lack of clear academic evidence around how online shopping and home delivery affects consumption practices and consumer diets.
The food environment, in terms of 
availability, marketing and advertising, has a significant influence on consumption.  
Individuals are often aware of the need for a healthy diet but they are constrained by the current food environment. There is increasing evidence that access to unhealthy food through the built food environment (e.g. fast-food restaurants, convenience stores) is associated with obesity. There is increasing research into ‘food deserts’ suggesting that they have a significant negative influence on consumption. The micro environment (e.g. through food placement and portion sizes) also has an influence on consumption. Within this environment is also the influence of marketing and advertising by manufacturers and retailers, which has a significant effect on food purchases, particularly driving the consumption of unhealthy food in children and young people.
Food decisions are rarely purely rational and 
knowledge-led, and instead are driven by a myriad of interacting cultural, societal and personal factors that lead to different ‘food publics’ with different values and practices. Food decisions are rarely rational and instead are driven by cultural and social norms but also unconscious mechanisms, such as heuristics, habit and emotions. Policy responses need to take these personal factors into account.