102
Food consumption in the UK
a fair and relatively representative picture of the 
current state of the evidence.
Focus on academic literature
Through our interviews at the scoping stage, we were advised that the focus on academic literature may have some limitations. For example, there may be evidence on new and emerging trends in consumption, as well as on policy interventions, in industry research and grey literature that is not captured in academic literature, and these other sources may offer different approaches and perspectives (for example, on segmentation). However, following discussion with Defra we determined that the primary focus of this work should be on academic literature both to address gaps in their knowledge with regard to this literature and to ensure our focus on high-quality work. We have, however, attempted to address this limitation by drawing on some reviews from the grey literature and snowballing to include wider key sources. Regardless of the source of evidence, all included literature was subject to quality review ensuring that even where non-academic sources are used, we have assessed the quality and reliability of the evidence and take this into account in our assessment of the final message communicated in our report. 
Depth and comprehensiveness of analysis
Because of the complexity and richness of the literature, it is likely that there are a number of elements even within the studies included that have not been fully explored within the scope of this report. We have balanced length and complexity with comprehensiveness, aiming to provide an overall picture of the key emerging issues with a focus on the study questions identified for this work.
Emphasis and bias
In any analysis, there is potential for the biases of those conducting the analysis, whether conscious or subconscious, to influence the final output. Consultation, though beneficial in many ways, also runs the risk of skewing findings and analysis based on the particular views of those consulted. We have used clear methodological approaches such as a formal extraction template to help try and ensure a consistent approach to the identification and prioritisation of information across the study team. We have also been careful to reflect on the input of expert informants in light of their particular opinions and viewpoints. However, we inevitably will have focused on those issues of most interest to Defra and to others consulted, and our thinking has been shaped by the conceptual framework developed at the outset and the views and input of our expert advisors. We anticipate this has largely been beneficial in providing guidance and structure within what is a vast and complex literature. However, there may also have been implications for the coverage and emphasis of the review. 