xxiv
Food consumption in the UK
A ‘whole systems’ approach could help to 
change food consumption 
Overall, the evidence indicates that a 
combination of approaches across the policy spectrum is needed to promote a healthy, ethical and sustainable diet rather than focusing on any one measure alone. A balance is needed between ‘soft’ measures (e.g. knowledge and information provision) that promote individual-level change and ‘hard’ measures that encourage collective change (e.g. changes to the food environment and cost and content of food). Knowledge and information can serve to raise awareness, but individuals are limited in their capacity to change their consumption by the availability of food in the food environment and are also influenced by powerful drivers such as cost and habit, which ultimately serve as significant barriers to healthy, sustainable and ethical diets.
Invest in evaluations of the effectiveness 
of interventions that target the wider (and changing) food environment 
There is increasing evidence that individuals 
are limited to exercise healthy choices by the availability of food in their environment, and access to unhealthy food has been associated with obesity. However, to date there are few interventions that have explicitly targeted the wider (built and micro) food environment to address the availability of unhealthy food. Good-quality studies based in a real-world setting are also required to help design effective interventions in this space. Both policy and research as yet does not well reflect changing modes of consumption and information sources, particularly in relation to online and out of home. For example, most media campaigns are conducted through television, with limited use of new, online media, and evidence on purchase of food through online routes is currently limited. Both policy and research needs to progress to ensure adequate information is available and appropriate policy responses are in place to reflect our changing food environment. 
Gather real-world evidence around 
subsidies, taxes and reformulation programmes to better understand potential substitution effects
Although there is emerging evidence that 
changing the cost and content of food through taxes, subsidies and reformulation programmes is effective at changing practices, there are potential substitution effects that are not well understood. Studies based on real-world data could help to provide more accurate evidence around this. 
Collect evidence on longer-term 
outcomes and more longitudinal data 
It is particularly challenging to identify concrete 
evidence on the longer-term outcomes of interventions and to understand what factors can result in changes in consumption practices. Most evaluations of interventions only include short-term follow-up and many often look at intermediate rather than final outcomes. Assessments of the drivers of consumption are often cross-sectional, limiting the scope to look at whether changes in personal circumstance, knowledge, experience and other wider factors can drive changes in consumption over time. Improving the evidence base through more long-term follow-up and increased longitudinal data would not just help us to understand whether existing interventions are working or what the trends are. It would also enable us better to design policies that are effective at changing consumption. Evidence gaps in longer-term outcomes should not prevent the creation of much needed interventions to address food consumption, but all new policies should have long-term evaluation built in.