2
Food consumption in the UK
of biodiversity loss worldwide (Vermeulen et 
al., 2012). In addition, consumption practices create substantial food and plastic waste, which has adverse effects on human health, the environment and the economy (van Otterdijk & Meybeck, 2011). Food waste is costly and according to one estimate produces £20 billion in losses in the UK annually
7, 
contributes to approximately 25 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions (WRAP , 2019) and decreases the supply of nutritious foods available to those in need (European Commission, 2016). Plastic waste introduces chemicals in the natural environment, destroys natural habitats as plastic is non-biodegradable and leaves behind compounds that are dangerous to human health and wildlife (Ilyas et al., 2018; Institute for European Environmental Policy et al., 2018). It should be noted that there is likely a trade-off between food waste and removal of plastic packaging, with evidence suggesting that plastic reduction could increase food waste and use of other types of packaging may contain materials that are more energy intensive or worse for the environment (WRAP , 2019). Therefore, more research regarding the circular economy is required to understand these trade-offs.
However, a change of diet could improve the 
adverse environmental consequences of the food system. Dietary changes, particularly by reducing the consumption of meat and animal products, can lead to a substantial reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (Hallström et al., 2015). A reduction in meat consumption could also reduce the demand for land and thereby counter biodiversity loss (Hallström et 
7 Food waste arising within UK households, hospitality and food service, food manufacture, retail and wholesale 
sectors.
8 The Eatwell Guide is a policy tool developed by Public Health England used t o define government recommendations 
on eating healthily and achieving a balanced diet (Public Health England, 2016).
9 The EAT-Lancet diet was de veloped by the EAT-Lancet Commission on Food, Planet, Health and consists of a set of 
global recommendations for a sustainable and healthy diet (Willett et al., 2019).al., 2015), although this is complex to predict as UK produce may be exported to other countries instead. However, the exact amount by which meat consumption should be reduced and the food products that should replace meat remains contentious (Willett et al., 2019). In 2011, the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition recommended that adults who have red meat intakes of more than 90 g per day should consider decreasing to 70 g per day (SACN, 2011). The UK government’s Eatwell Guide
8 
recommends eating less red and processed meat and suggests that pulses are good alternatives to meat (Public Health England, 2018). An analysis by the Carbon Trust reported that a diet in line with the Eatwell Guide would have a 32 per cent lower environmental impact (in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, water and land use) than the current average UK diet (Carbon Trust, 2016). 
A number of differences 
contribute to the reduction, such as increasing 
potatoes, fish, wholemeal and white bread, vegetables and fruit while reducing amounts of dairy, meat, rice, pasta, pizza and sweet foods. 
The EAT-Lancet diet9 launched in January 
2019 calls for a reduction of about 50 per cent 
in the global consumption of foods such as red meat (Willett et al., 2019). However, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has withdrawn its support for the EAT-Lancet diet, questioning its scientific basis and feasibility (Torjesen, 2019). This was recently rebutted from the EAT-Lancet Commission that claimed that rather than advocating for ‘centralised control of dietary choices’, they put forth the latest science and a definition of sustainable food production that fits local and heterogeneous food diets and cultures worldwide (Rockström & Willett, 2019).