5
attitudes and values are a result of an ageing 
population (Allen et al., 2017; Dean et al., 2009), migration, urbanisation and rising income levels (FAO, 2018; Ruben et al., 2019). In addition, wider trends in lifestyle, living conditions (i.e. the number of people who live alone) and the rise of alternative work arrangements also contribute to the different attitudes of individuals towards food and their consumption practices (Hanna & Collins, n.d.; Ruben et al., 2019). 
Food matters and we need to 
understand it
What we eat can have big implications for 
our health, our society and the environment. Understanding current trends, what drives them, and how we can change consumption practices through interventions is crucial to inform policy. The aim of this report is to provide a review of consumer attitudes and practices towards food in the UK in support of Defra’s work on food production and consumption. This work focuses on providing evidence on four main questions:
1.What are the trends related to consumerfood practices and attitudes and to thechanging food environment (e.g. out-of-home sector, online retail models) in the UK?
2.What are the drivers of consumption11 (e.g.
the role of information or food systemactors)?
3.Which interventions can influence foodconsumption practices?
11 There are many definitions of consumption. In this report, ‘consumption’ refers primarily t o decisions made by 
individuals about what foods to buy and eat, but also includes planning, preparation and intake of food (Sobal & 
Bisogni, 2009). The exception to this definition is children, and particularly young children, who have less agency. While many studies rely on consumption as a proxy for intake, some studies do unpick the relationship between purchasing and intake and these have been described.
12
 The overall assessment of the strength of the evidence that is presented in the findings is qualitative, taking into 
account both the quality of individual studies, the number of studies reinforcing the point and, particularly, the existence (or otherwise) of prior systematic review evidence suggesting confidence in a particular finding. These factors have been combined together to give an overall assessment of the status of the existing evidence across different areas. Please see Annex A for more detail on the quality assessment process and criteria.4.What are the differences between groups,
or ‘food publics’ (Darnton, 2016), acrossthe trends, drivers and interventions (i.e.segmentation)?
This report provides a summary of the existing evidence and evidence-gaps on these questions, with a focus on high-quality,
12 
primarily academic literature. The study approach consisted of a rapid evidence assessment (REA). The review included high-quality academic studies from 2010 to 2019 restricted to the UK or the UK with comparator countries. In terms of scope, the review considered studies addressing trends in consumer attitudes and practices in relation to food consumption; drivers of those practices; differences by consumer groupings/segmentation; and policies/interventions to change food consumption and their effectiveness. The following studies were outside of the scope of the review: studies addressing the impact of food, diet or consumption patterns on health and health-related behaviours (exclusion does not include health as a driver of consumption); and studies addressing the relationship between socio-economic factors and health. The report was completed before the Covid-19 pandemic, and so the impacts of the pandemic on food consumption trends, drivers and attitudes are outside of the scope of this study. The methods and approach for this study are summarised in detail in Annex A.