13
actively seek these products was much lower 
across all three categories (Defra, 2011). The concept of a value-action gap – where stated preferences do not necessarily translate into actions in practice – is a common challenge in conducting research on food preferences and drivers of food practices (Garnett et al., 2015). In many contexts, people will state that certain values (e.g. animal welfare, sustainability) are important or matter to them when asked (for example in a survey setting), but the extent to whether these preferences show in consumption practices in real-world settings is often much more limited (BARR, 2006; Padel & Foster, 2005; Vermeir & Verbeke, 2006).
A number of factors have been found to 
contribute to the value-action gap. In particular, price has been identified as a key barrier to ethical and sustainable food purchases (Defra, 2011; Mintel, 2019a) and in one study ‘price conscious’ consumers made up the largest segment in the market (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2016). The recession was found to decrease purchasing of Fairtrade products in ‘occasional’ consumers compared to ‘active’ consumers, with the former being more driven by product characteristics such as price and quality (Bondy & Talwar, 2011). Perceived quality is another factor, with evidence from a choice experiment study showing that consumers expressed very low preferences for meat substitutes, partly due to lower perceived quality, although the same consumers valued attributes such as being produced in the UK and having a low carbon footprint (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2016). Habit was also found to be a barrier in one study, with respondents in one survey stating that they did not choose sustainable and ethical food out of habit (Defra, 2011). 
In addition, not all consumers are equally aware 
of social and environmental consequences of their consumption. There can be a lack of awareness of how personal food choices (e.g. meat consumption) impact on wider issues (e.g. climate change), leading to resistance to the idea of behavioural change (e.g. reducing personal meat consumption) (Happer & Wellesley, 2019; Macdiarmid, Douglas, & Campbell, 2016). Even where individuals are aware, there may be differences in their ability to act on their beliefs and values. For example, we note that ethically certified food is more commonly purchased by older consumers (aged 55 or more) (Mintel, 2019a). This may reflect the values of this group, relative to the wider population, or it may be that there is a perception of greater quality, or simply that they are better able to act on those values due to factors such as wealth or availability of time (Regan et al., 2018; Toti & Moulins, 2016). Some individuals may feel a lack of agency with regard to issues such as sustainability and animal welfare in a food system dominated by large powerful companies (Howse et al., 2018).
Based on these findings, it is likely that a 
combination of approaches may be effective to encourage ethical and sustainable food consumption. The rise in ‘flexitarian’ consumers suggests there could be scope for policymakers to develop interventions to encourage meat reduction. For example, information campaigns could be used to increase awareness and encourage the reduction of meat consumption in those groups of consumers who currently lack awareness. Although these policies are unlikely to change practices on their own, they could encourage consumers to accept future, more substantive interventions such as economic measures. There is also scope for policymakers to target the value-action gap by making it easier for socially conscious consumers to purchase ethical and sustainable food. 