v
Introduction and objectives of the 
study
What we eat has big implications for our health, 
our society and the environment. Understanding these trends, what drives them and how we can change consumption practices through interventions is crucial to inform policy. The aim of this study is to provide an overview of the existing evidence in four main areas:
•The trends related to consumer foodpractices and attitudes, and to the changingfood environment (e.g. out-of-home sector
1,
online retail models) in the UK.
•The drivers of consumption (e.g. the role ofinformation or food system actors).
•Interventions that can influence foodconsumption practices.
•The differences between groups, or ‘foodpublics’, across the trends, drivers andinterventions (i.e. segmentation).
This report provides evidence around these questions and identifies areas of uncertainty where more evidence is required and, based on this, suggests a number of priority areas for action and further research.
1 The ‘out-of-home’ sector has been defined as any outlet that pr ovides food or drink that has been prepared and is 
ready for immediate consumption (Department of Health and Social Care, 2018). This includes restaurants, cafes, 
takeaways and any online businesses that sell food for takeaway or home delivery.The study approach consisted of a rapid 
evidence assessment (REA). REAs are similar to systematic reviews, in taking a robust and replicable approach to searching and reviewing the literature. However, the scope and coverage of literature is restricted using a range of criteria that can be adjusted in response to the volume of literature identified, enabling them to be conducted within a more limited timeframe. The focus of this study was on identification of existing evidence and evidence gaps within high-quality, primarily academic literature from the last ten years. The methods and approach for this study are summarised in detail in Annex A.
Consumption trends – which 
foods are people consuming, where and how?
What people consume still falls short of dietary 
guidelines. While diets are slowly changing, 
people are generally not meeting the standards recommended for a healthy diet in the UK or internationally ( Figure 1). The UK population 
continues to consume too much saturated fat and not enough fruit, vegetables and fibre. Summary