9
remains high, with analysis of National Diet 
and Nutrition Survey data indicating that more than half of all calories consumed on average across the UK population come from ultra-processed foods (Rauber et al., 2018).
14 Figure 
6 provides an overview of food consumption trends in the UK.
Together, these findings suggest that, overall, 
actions so far to encourage healthier eating have been of limited or mixed effectiveness on aggregate, indicating further action may be needed.
The channels through which 
consumers purchase food are diversifying
Self-reported survey evidence shows that the 
majority of UK consumers continue to buy 
14 Recent definitions of ‘ultra-processed’ food define it as foods typically modified by chemical processes, which are 
then assembled into ready-to-eat food products using additives (e.g. flavours, colours, emulsifiers). Foods include 
savoury snacks, reconstituted meat products, pre-prepared frozen dishes and soft drinks (Carlos A. Monteiro et al., 2019). However, the term ‘ultra-processed’ is not defined consistently in the literature and is open to interpretation, which can be a potential confounding factor in assessing the strength of the evidence.food from large supermarkets (FSA, 2019b). 
One study found that older people may prefer luxury supermarkets (e.g. Marks & Spencer and Waitrose), though this may also be linked to income levels (Omar et al., 2014). However, in recent years, survey evidence indicates that other forms of retailer have increased in popularity, including mini supermarkets, supermarket home delivery and other forms of home delivery (e.g. vegetable boxes, Hello Fresh and Amazon Fresh), although use still remains low (FSA, 2019b). These newer channels reflect the increasing importance of the online grocery shopping market, which is projected to increase its market share from 18.6 per cent to 23.4 per cent by 2024 (IGD, 2019b).
Although there has been an increase in online 
sales in the UK, including in grocery shopping No change/reduction 
in fruit and vegetable 
consumptionReduction 
in red meat 
consumptionReduction 
in sugar 
consumptionReduction 
in salt 
consumption
Source: RAND Europe analysis. Downward facing arrow indicates a reduction. Bidirectional arrow indicates no 
change. Colour of arrows indicates relationship with existing dietary guidelines: red indicates the change is against the desired direction; amber indicates there has been no change; and green indicates a change in the desired direction. These trends are based on analysis over the last ten years.Figure 6 Food consumption trends in the UK in relation to dietary guidelines