26
Food consumption in the UK
Emerging evidence indicates that 
online food purchases enabled by digital technologies (either grocery shopping or takeaway consumption) will become an important driver for consumption trends in the future 
There is some evidence in the academic 
literature that the changing digital landscape (in terms of increased availability of computers, tablets and mobile phones) has increased instant deliveries, on-demand delivery, rush deliveries, flexible transport services and peer-to-peer logistics in the UK (Allen et al., 2017; Dablanc et al., 2017; Nguyen et al., 2018; O’Neill et al., 2019; Sparks & Burt, 2017). However, to date, the role of the changing digital landscape and its influence on consumption trends is not widely covered (Dablanc et al., 2017).
This literature finds that the general rise in 
e-commerce combined with the changing habits of consumers has contributed to the growth in online food purchases. The growth in online food shopping is also driven by the product range available, the lower prices offered and convenience (i.e. that consumers can save time when not having to physically shop) (Dablanc et al., 2017). Conversely, some of the barriers to the use of instant delivery is the unwillingness of consumers to pay a lot of money for these services (Dablanc et al., 2017). However, different types of consumers are driven by different trends related to online purchases, as convenience shoppers might aim for time savings while those who seek variety might look for novel brands and products (Nguyen et al., 2018).
There are also some suggestions in the 
literature that online food purchases influence the types of foods consumed by individuals; however, it appears to be a ‘double-edged sword’ as online shopping can drive both healthy and unhealthy food consumption. For example, it can reduce the likelihood of buying unhealthy foods due to a reduction in impulse purchases and can be a way to overcome healthy food accessibility challenges. However, it can also increase the chances of buying unhealthy products, since consumers may be more reluctant or unable to buy fresh products online (Jilcott Pitts et al., 2018). There is evidence suggesting that in an offline setting, customers with lower self-control may be more susceptible to marketing of unhealthy foods; however, the evidence is lacking around the types of individuals who make healthy and unhealthy online purchases.