20
Food consumption in the UK
et al., n.d.; Blow et al., 2019; Meah & Watson, 
2011; Wills et al., 2019). In addition, factors such as age, availability and accessibility, wider social changes, class, lifestyle and food culture trends, and the preferences of consumers interact with the food environment (Allman-Farinelli et al., n.d.; Roe et al., 2016; Tanton et al., 2015; Ziauddeen et al., 2018) .
Different actors have important 
roles in shaping the food environments that frame the food choices made by consumers 
Different food system actors, including 
the food industry, the government, civil society and the individual, all work together to either constrain and or enable the food consumption practices of individuals and the biological, psychological, social, and economic vulnerabilities and opportunities that promote the consumption of certain foods (Jackson, 2010; Roberto et al., 2015). Although the literature cites a variety of food system actors as being important in influencing the food environment and consumption practices, there is no evidence on their relative importance.
There is strong, but not extensive, evidence on 
the distinct role of the food industry in shaping the food environment and consumption practices in the academic literature, although the grey literature deals with this in more detail (Food & Drink Federation, n.d.; GrantThornton, 2017; USDA, 2018). The food industry is shaped by and responds to consumer demand, but manufacturers and retailers also shape and change consumption practices in the UK. The food industry in the UK can determine the ingredients and content of food
25 and the 
placement and availability of food in the food 
25 Determining the content of food is within the limits of existing food regulations, for example regulations that specify 
mandatory food compositional standards.environment (MacKay, 2011; Roberto et al., 2015). In addition, although there is less trust in the food industry than other sources of information on food-related risks (European Food Safety Authority, 2019), there is strong evidence that manufacturers and retailers can help create or damage consumer trust in food (J. Barnett et al., 2016; Houghtaling et al., 2019; Jackson, 2010; Marshall et al., 2018), for instance through scandals such as the horsemeat scandal. Retailers also guide the food market in terms of education/information campaigns (e.g. enhanced  promotion  of healthy products and how to use them), labelling (e.g. shelf labelling, particularly using nutrition summary scores) and price promotions (e.g. ‘buy one get one free’,  other  multi-purchase  or  multipack  discounts,  basic  discount  offers and  meal  deals) (Cameron et al., 2016; Howse et al., 2018; Sparks & Burt, 2017), and there is potential for the food industry to promote healthy food environments (Roberto et al., 2015). 
In addition, there is some evidence that big 
food industry players, such as transnational food corporations, play a significant role in driving demand for processed foods, the fast-food market, and a Western lifestyle globally, which is driven by global marketing campaigns (Baker & Friel, 2016; Kearney, 2010). For example, evidence suggests that ultra-processed food sales have increased rapidly in most middle-income countries (Baker & Friel, 2016). Another factor that shapes the food environment is also the influence that lobbying from the food industry, including manufacturers of prepared and processed foods, has on enabling or challenging policies and interventions aimed at changing consumer demand (Roberto et al., 2015). 