25
types of meat they purchase as origin labels 
are perceived to be associated with food safety (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2019; Font i Furnols et al., 2011).
There is limited evidence 
that consumers consider the technologies used in food production processes when making food-related decisions 
There is some evidence in the literature that 
the public is sometimes concerned with the supply-side technologies used in food production, including technologies involved in the production of some functional foods,
28 
irradiation, and cultured and mechanically separated meat (FSA, 2016; Wim Verbeke et al., 2015). When prompted, some consumers say that they support technologies that can strengthen the health benefits of certain food products without being excessively invasive (e.g. the application of muscle profiling in beef production), but are resistant to food technologies that they perceive to be ‘unnatural’ or that involve excessive manipulation (e.g. processed beef) (W. Verbeke et al., 2010; Wim Verbeke et al., 2015). This reflects that there are different preferences related to different technologies in the UK. The Food Standards Agency (FSA, 2016) finds that consumers in the UK perceive that mechanically separated meat is relatively acceptable and does not drive consumption and purchasing patterns. However, technologies such as irradiation and cultured meat production are perceived in less favourable terms to consumers because the technologies are perceived as unnatural and invasive (FSA, 2016; Wim Verbeke et al., 
28 While there is no formally agreed definition, ‘functional foods’ can be defined as foods that contain biologically active 
components, which can enhance health or reduce the risk of disease beyond ordinary nutritional effects. Functional 
foods can be natural food or processed food that has been modified by technological or biotechnological methods (del Castillo et al., 2018).2015). Some evidence indicates that these 
perceptions may not necessarily influence the consumption choices of individuals in a significant way (W. Verbeke et al., 2010) because many consumers feel like they lack knowledge and awareness or are uncertain about what each technology is and so tend to take a position of neutrality when faced with decisions based on food technologies (FSA, 2016). More recent evidence suggests that consumers’ perceptions of agri-food technologies may act as a barrier to consumption (Wim Verbeke et al., 2015). For example, in one study investigating consumer reactions towards the concept of cultured meat in three EU countries (including the UK), reactions included disgust, considerations of unnaturalness and uncertainty over the long-term consequences of a shift from traditional to cultured meat production and consumption (Wim Verbeke et al., 2015). However, consumers did acknowledge that there are potential societal benefits associated with cultured meat (Wim Verbeke et al., 2015). Consumers are wary of novel technologies such as genetic modification, cloning and nanotechnology, which they perceive to contain significant technological intervention but little direct benefit to consumers (Wim Verbeke et al., 2015). Attitudes also change when confronted with issues such as the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis in the 1990s or the horsemeat scandal in 2013, which can lead to an increase in awareness that may affect practices, although this is only likely to be short term (Food Safety News, 2019; Murray, 2018). 