vi
Food consumption in the UK
There are socio-demographic differences 
in the consumption of a healthy diet. Low socio-economic status (in terms of education level, work status and income) is the single most consistent risk factor for an unhealthy diet. There are also various other factors that influence consumption, such as age and gender; however, the evidence for these is less strong or mixed, and studies are not always adequately controlled. Despite these socio-demographic differences, diets remain on average unhealthy across all groups.
The channels through which consumers 
purchase food are diversifying.  The physical 
food environment is becoming increasingly diverse and fragmented, particularly in terms of the channels through which individuals purchase food. Individuals are increasingly shopping for food online and using food delivery services (e.g. vegetable boxes, Hello Fresh and Amazon Fresh). Although total use of online channels currently remains low, this is a trend that is predicted to increase.The out-of-home food environment is increasingly common. There has been an 
increase in the consumption of food outside the home. The importance of the out-of-home environment is facilitated by digital technology and the expansion of online food delivery platforms, particularly new players such as Deliveroo and Uber Eats. This trend, which is predicted to increase, has negative implications for the consumption of a healthy diet since food outside the home tends to be less healthy.
Some individuals care about the origin, 
sustainability and ethical production standards of their food. Some individuals are increasingly 
socially conscious, particularly in terms of the ethical, environmental and social impacts of their food choices. There has been an increase in the sales of ethical and sustainable produce, such as Fairtrade and RSPCA Assured products. However, total sales are low, representing only 11 per cent of all household food purchases. Some consumers also increasingly care about the provenance of their Figure 1 Food consumption trends in the UK in relation to dietary guidelines
No change/reduction 
in fruit and vegetable 
consumptionReduction 
in red meat 
consumptionReduction 
in sugar 
consumptionReduction 
in salt 
consumption
Source: RAND Europe analysis. Downward facing arrow indicates a reduction. Bidirectional arrow indicates no 
change. Colour of arrows indicates relationship with existing dietary guidelines: red indicates the change is against the desired direction; amber indicates there has been no change; and green indicates a change in the desired direction. These trends are based on analysis over the last ten years.