24
Food consumption in the UK
The importance that consumers place on 
each issue depends on personal differences, such as emotions and habit, as well as questions of identity, culture and belonging (FSA, 2019). In addition, the types and levels of concern can be shaped by the type of products consumed. For example, consumers frequently cite safety as a concern when choosing meat products (such as beef and chicken) (Jackson, 2010; W. Verbeke et al., 2010), shellfish, and takeaway food that has been reheated (FSA, 2019a). There are also some concerns around eggs, unwashed and frozen vegetables, bread, cooked sliced meats, and sandwiches that are pre-prepared (FSA, 2019a). Although not widely covered in the academic literature, there is strong evidence in the grey literature that food safety concerns are also shaped by food environments. Consumers are less likely to be worried about food prepared in their own home and perceive that consuming food in the out-of-home sector increases the likelihood of being exposed to food safety risks (FSA, 2019a). Food safety is likely to be an increasing concern with the increasing diversification and fragmentation of food consumption channels due to the growth of the online food market. 
Perceived food quality might 
be an important driver for some consumers’ choices 
There is moderate evidence that perceived food 
quality is an important driver for consumer choice, with studies citing that consumers look for ‘freshness’, taste and sensory and visual appeal when making food decisions (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2019; S. Hashem et al., 2018; Mansfield & Savaiano, 2017; K. H. Ng et al., 2015; Patterson et al., 2012; Wills et al., 2019). Food quality is a reason for consumers choosing organic products, for example, because organic products are perceived to be ‘fresher’, have greater sensory appeal and, in the case of home delivery boxes or farmers markets, fruits and vegetables delivered directly from farmers are considered to be of a higher quality than that found in supermarkets (S. Hashem et al., 2018; Mansfield & Savaiano, 2017). It should be noted that perceived quality relates to a consumer’s own perception of what quality is.
Consumers consider the country 
of origin of food products, as they associate the country of origin with food quality and safety 
When consumers are asked, some evidence 
exists that country of origin of food products is an important stated preference (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2019; European Food Safety Authority, 2019; Font i Furnols et al., 2011; FSA, 2019b; Ghvanidze et al., 2017). Consumers tend to say they prefer British, UK or Irish products rather than products that come from elsewhere when purchasing intentions are analysed (FSA, 2019b). The perception amongst many UK consumers is that products that are nationally or locally sourced are of higher quality (FSA, 2019b). For example, in the most recent Food and You survey published by the Food Standards Agency, approximately half of the respondents said that they had greater trust in the quality of food produced in the UK (FSA, 2019b). The exception is when a food product is perceived to be of higher quality when sourced from a particular region, such as Mediterranean olive oil (Kavallari et al., 2011). Country of origin also relates to perceptions of food safety and food security, as UK and EU consumers tend to perceive that locally and nationally sourced food follows stricter hygiene standards than those products that are internationally procured (European Food Safety Authority, 2019; FSA, 2019b).  The origin country of products is particularly important when consumers make decisions about the 