33
There are also a few examples focusing 
specifically on socio-demographics, such as income group (e.g. Smith et al. 2018). However, the extent to which demographic variables are aligned with identified clusters varies. On the one hand, some segmentations find that socio-demographic variables provide a poor explanation of differences in food attitudes and practices (Ghvanidze et al., 2017; Kehlbacher et al., 2019; Piqueras-Fiszman & Jaeger, 2016). For example, consumers have been found to be concerned with nutritional information about food products independently of how price sensitive they are, contradicting other studies that find that price sensitive consumers are less focused on the nutrition content of products (Ghvanidze et al., 2017). In addition, another study investigating emotional associations to food finds that behavioural variables might be more effective at capturing segmentations than socio-demographic differences (Piqueras-Fiszman & Jaeger, 2016). On the other hand, others find that one or more socio-demographic variables are aligned with their segmentation categories (Apostolidis 
& McLeay, 2019; Font i Furnols et al., 2011; Puelles et al., 2016; Sprake et al., 2018). 
Although most segmentation approaches 
focus on characterising groups in terms of their attitudes and behaviours, there are some novel approaches. For example, one study looks at seasonal and temporal changes in food-related content of two UK magazines over the course of the year, producing three clusters of magazine content reflecting the food behaviour of young women: vegetarianism, convenience eating and weight control (Spencer et al., 2014). Another study investigated differences in food practices and attitudes across different geographical ‘urban foodscapes’ in Newcastle, identifying seven foodscape character types (e.g. fast food takeaway landscape, farmer’s markets, restaurants serving international cuisine) (Roe et al., 2016). Box 5 below provides 
an overview of different types of segmentation approaches described in the literature.
However, segmentation approaches are usually 
highly context-specific and dependent upon the variables included in the analysis and need to be applied to representative population level data in order to make generalisations. For example, one study creates a cluster of the food advertising in different magazines, but only for two magazines and did not investigate the effects of food advertising on the readers of the magazines (Spencer et al., 2014). The segmentation approach using urban ‘foodscapes’ is innovative but based on small scale data from one city in the UK (Roe et al., 2016). In addition, several of the segmentation studies are of moderate quality and lack a statistically significant sample (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2016; Palma et al., 2017; Price et al., 2016; Roe et al., 2016). A review of segmentation approaches emphasises the potential of this type of analysis to help support effective communication of messages and understanding differences and nuances in behaviour and practices (C. Barnett & Mahony, 2011). In addition, segmentation approaches are often used in commercial settings for marketing purposes, and so although they can help to identify consumption patterns, the extent to which they can be applied to the public sector to affect change is less clear (C. Barnett & Mahony, 2011). Therefore, care needs to be taken to reflect on the assumptions and rationale underpinning segmentation methods and that superficial application of segmentations to support policy development and implementation can be counterproductive, and potentially even in tension with the aims of policy action to deliver wider public good.