39
it is less clear that they affect calorie intake or 
consumption (potentially since several factors in addition to calorie content, e.g. salt content, affects the healthiness of foods, and also due to the ‘halo effect’)
34 (Cecchini & Warin, 2016). 
Traffic light schemes35 are more effective 
than other approaches such as guideline daily amounts (where the proportion of the recommended daily amount of sugar, fat or other food groups contained in a product is provided) (Cecchini & Warin, 2016; Magnusson, 2010). While most of the evidence relates to health, there is some emerging evidence related to labelling for sustainability and other non-health issues, but so far this is very limited (Garnett et al., 2015). For example, carbon labels have been trialled by UK supermarket Tesco since 2008; consumers support the use of such labels but report finding them hard to understand and interpret (Gadema & Oglethorpe, 2011).  
Although nutritional labels are associated with 
a healthier diet, the impact of labelling per se is less clear; it may be that individuals who are interested in healthy eating are more likely to seek out and use nutrition labels (Campos et al., 2011). Use of food labelling information is particularly high among individuals with health conditions and special dietary requirements and notably lower among children, adolescents, older adults and people in lower socio-economic groups (Campos et al., 2011). 
Barriers to people using and acting on labelling 
information include a lack of motivation and attention (Garnett et al., 2015) and not feeling like they have the requisite knowledge to make decisions based on labels (Chandon, 2013; Christoph et al., 2016). Levels of literacy and numeracy may also impact on ability to 
34 The ‘halo effect’ describes the tendency of consumers to generalise a piece of information found on a food label t o 
the whole food product (Emrich et al., 2015).
35 ‘Traffic light’ schemes are when foods are labelled as ‘red’, ‘amber’ or ‘green’ based on their content of different food 
groups such as sugar, salt and fat (Magnusson, 2010)engage with labelling information (Malloy-Weir & Cooper, 2017). Box 6 provides an overview of 
some of the main food labelling schemes in the UK and evidence of their effectiveness.
Labelling in restaurants and fast-food 
settings can reduce calorie consumption
Evidence on the effect of food labelling in 
restaurants and fast-food settings is mixed, if largely positive. Several reviews have concluded that there are significant effects of menu labelling in terms of calories consumed (Littlewood et al., 2016; Magnusson, 2010; B. Wright & Bragge, 2018). However, others are more equivocal (Long et al., 2015; Sinclair et al., 2014). There is some suggestion that studies in real-world settings show smaller effects on consumption than in experimental settings (Long et al., 2015). Some evidence suggests that menu labelling with calories alone is less effective than when contextual or interpretive nutrition information is provided (Sinclair et al., 2014). The difference in effectiveness is comparable to the greater efficacy of a traffic light approach in a supermarket setting. It has also been found that labels may only have effects in certain population subgroups, with some evidence that women may use menu labels whereas men do not (Sinclair et al., 2014). Calories consumed are reduced most significantly in restaurant and fast-food settings as a result of food labelling, with smaller changes observed in coffee shops (Littlewood et al., 2016). 
Interactive learning in schools can change 
consumption
Review evidence indicates that education 
interventions in schools seem to be effective 