30
Food consumption in the UK
‘Food identities’31 can be fluid depending on 
interactions between social change, practices, 
trends and the food environment (Roe et al., 2016). Beliefs and values also drive level of engagement with policy actions. For example, those concerned about healthy eating are more likely to derive value from food labelling (Ghvanidze et al., 2017).
However, while consumers cite the importance 
of values and beliefs in driving their food choices, values are often less significant than other factors such as taste, cost or convenience (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2019; Garnett et al., 2015; Vinther et al., 2016). Consumers highlight values and beliefs as important when making food decisions, but there is still a significant value-action gap between what people believe and what they actually consume in practice (YouGov: Eating Better, 2019). There is strong evidence to suggest that in addition to other important factors (e.g. price, quality and availability), one reason for this is because the extent to which people respond to social and environmental labelling depends not just on attitudes towards those issues but the extent to which people feel they can make a difference (Ghvanidze et al., 2016; Sleddens et al., 2015; Spencer et al., 2014) . People may 
feel a lack of agency with regard to issues such as sustainability and animal welfare in a food system dominated by large powerful companies (Howse et al., 2018). In addition, confidence is positively associated with individuals changing their diets (Hardcastle et al., 2015) and many consumers deal with socially responsible food decisions with a degree of cynicism (Happer & Wellesley, 2019). Thus, interventions aimed at changing consumption patterns should develop an individuals’ confidence to change diets (Hardcastle et al., 2015). 
31 ‘Food identity’ is defined as a way of characterising regular or preferred food consumption and food production based 
on what is eaten, purchased, produced, and how people perceive the value and purpose of food (Roe, Sarlöv Herlin, & 
Speak, 2016).Food decisions are rarely the 
outcome of conscious deliberation and influenced by habitual mechanisms and emotions
There is strong evidence that our choices about 
what foods to buy and eat are often made unconsciously and driven by unconscious mechanisms such as heuristics. Choices about food are a combination of reflective (i.e. deliberate and self-conscious) and automatic (i.e. rapid and driven by unconscious mechanisms and biases) decision making. Food ‘choice’ is in reality often not a rational ‘choice’ per se but an unconscious response to a food setting or environment mediated through personal and social experiences and factors (Gutjar et al., 2015; Wansink & Sobal, 2007). Thus, the extent to which people are able to consciously control and regulate their practices varies significantly (being driven by emotions, mental health and habit), and is an important determinant of their consumption decisions. In addition, heuristics are influenced by the external food environment; the design of menus and food products, as well as the surroundings in restaurants and supermarkets, act as contextual cues that subconsciously influence food choices (D. Cohen & Babey, 2012). 
Emotions are an important factor influencing 
consumption. Eating is often emotional (Jackson, 2010; Lu et al., 2013), pleasurable (den Uijl et al., 2016) and a social experience (Carey, Bell, Duff, Sheridan, & Shields, 2011; Köster & Mojet, 2015), and memories and feelings about foods can influence food choices (Piqueras-Fiszman & Jaeger, 2016; Robinson, 2014; Uprichard et al., 2013). People express emotional responses to food choices, 