38
Food consumption in the UK
Knowledge and information
There are a range of interventions that 
can affect the knowledge and information available to people to support their decisions and actions regarding food. Provision of information can be at a broad scale, through mass media campaigns or labelling schemes. It can also be more targeted, through learning and skills development in schools or healthcare interventions. Restricting advertising can also change the information addressed to individuals. Based on existing evidence, it appears that more targeted, accessible and understandable information is the most effective in changing consumption.
Mass media campaigns can change 
knowledge and beliefs, but it’s less clear whether they can change actions
There is a lot of evidence to suggest that 
campaigns can have an impact on intermediate outcomes, such as knowledge and attitudes. However, evidence is still limited as to whether campaigns can influence behaviour change (J Kite et al., 2018). Some studies, however, do suggest potential effectiveness of mass media campaigns (A. Afshin et al., 2015) on increased fruit and vegetable consumption for example (Dixon et al., 1998; Erinosho et al., 2012; Lutz et al., 1999) and in reducing the consumption of unhealthy foods (Jenkin et al., 2014). In the UK, a national campaign targeting salt intake was associated with a reduction in the proportion of adults who reported adding salt at the table, from 32.5 per cent in 2003 to 23.2 per cent in 2007 (Sutherland et al., 2013). There is some evidence that the messenger can shape the effectiveness of campaigns. For example, celebrity endorsements can provide support to media campaigns, although this may be short term. For example,  the celebrity chef Jamie Oliver helped to promote the UK government’s school meals campaigns around healthy eating in schools (Chapman & Rayner, 2012). Similarly, high-profile campaigns by NGOs, such as the ‘Behind the Brands’ ranking, pushed food companies to develop policies around sustainability (D. Smith, 2014). There is a paucity of evidence around the impact of other public figures in delivery campaigns.
Existing evaluations vary in quality and there 
are also limitations in campaign design. Many campaigns continue to target individual behaviours rather than upstream and social determinants of poor diet/obesity, and most campaigns are conducted through television with limited use of new media (J Kite et al., 2018). Mass media campaigns are more likely to be successful when combined with actions to increase availability and access to products and services that enable people to act on the messages received. It is also noted that campaigns are typically more effective when the target behaviour is one-off or episodic (e.g. vaccination) rather than ongoing and habitual as in the case of consumption practices (Wakefield et al., 2010). Media campaigns are also hindered through competition with marketing activities with competing and opposing messages (Wakefield et al., 2010). Information campaigns also rely on personal agency in changing practices and evidence consistently indicates that they tend to have greater impact in individuals with higher socio-economic status, and thus possibly widen inequalities (Friel et al., 2015; McGill et al., 2015).
Food labelling may have some effect on 
consumption and traffic light approaches are the most effective
There is mixed evidence across several 
systematic reviews, which on balance suggests that it is likely that food labelling can influence diet (A. Afshin et al., 2015; Campos et al., 2011; Cecchini & Warin, 2016; Shangguan Siyi et al., 2015). Specifically, labelling may help consumers select healthier food products, but 