47
various actors (i.e. corporate sector, academia 
and voluntary organisations) to commit and sign up to achieving actions set out in pledges in the areas of food, alcohol, health at work and physical activity. 
What is the category of intervention?
In the area of food, there were eight pledges, each proposing a number of interventions across the different categories of policy interventions identified for this study (knowledge and information, food environment, and cost and content of food), and each having varying numbers of signatories. Organisations that committed to a pledge were asked to develop a delivery plan and report on their progress in the spring of each year. 
What was the effect of the intervention?
An evaluation of six food pledges was conducted in 2015 (Knai et al., 2015). The authors evaluated the following pledges: out-of-home calorie labelling, salt reduction, calorie reduction, front-of-pack nutrition labelling, fruit and vegetable consumption, and saturated fats. Each of these pledges contained various interventions to promote greater/increased consumption of a healthier diet, including interventions to reduce food consumption of less healthy food/drink/ingredients, change dietary practices, and increase awareness or knowledge related to healthier food consumption. Examples of interventions under these pledges include: provision of information at point of choice; reformulation activities around salt and saturated fat; reformulation of recipes and menus; and prominently promoting fruit and vegetables in retail. An evaluation of the pledge on reducing levels of trans fatty acids in the food supply was conducted in 2017 (Knai et al., 2017).
37 The counterfactual pro vides an estimate of what would have occurred without the intervention.Knai et al. (2015) aimed to determine the effectiveness and added value of these various interventions and used the concept of ‘additionality’ to establish the counterfactual.
37 
‘Additionality’ was defined as the extent to which a given activity was brought about by the Responsibility Deal versus it would have happened anyway or was already happening. The counterfactual was derived from assessing organisations’ delivery plans to ascertain what actions organisations would have taken in the absence of the Responsibility Deal.
The interventions may not reflect the 
most effective strategies to improve diet: The authors found that the majority of Responsibility Deal food pledges included in the evaluation consisted of interventions that focused on knowledge and information provision, which do not reflect the most effective strategies to improve diet (e.g. out-of-home calorie labelling and front-of-pack nutrition labelling versus reformulation of products to reduce salt). They also found a lack of interventions around reducing sugar intake, reducing the marketing of less healthy foods and pricing (e.g. taxes and subsidies), all of which have a growing evidence base around their effectiveness at encouraging healthier choices. The authors concluded that pledge implementation is unlikely to have much effect on encouraging the consumption of healthier diets in England.
Progress reports were of poor quality or 
unavailable:  Some of the interventions 
mentioned in the delivery plans included in the study may have been effective at improving the consumption of healthier diets if implemented correctly. However, the authors found it hard to evaluate whether targets were being met due to the poor quality or unavailability of progress reports. Therefore, the authors highlighted 