46
Food consumption in the UK
There is a diversity of approaches to 
encourage industry to change its behaviour, each with varying levels of effectiveness. Voluntary approaches, such as the Public Health Responsibility Deal
36 are one way of 
implementing these changes, but industry responses to this are mixed; an evaluation of this programme suggests that companies have not used the most effective strategies and overall the programme has had low additionality (see Section 5.4 for more detail on the Responsibility Deal) (Knai et al., 2015; Reeve & Magnusson, 2015). Regulatory approaches, including restrictions and standards, pricing, and labelling requirements, can also drive industry to reformulate products (Hendry et al., 2015; Hyseni et al., 2016; Shangguan et al., 2019). In particular, ‘upstream’, population-wide mandatory approaches, such as maximum limits or restrictions, seem to be the most effective in driving significant changes in consumption, such as reductions in salt consumption and levels of trans fats in food (Hendry et al., 2015; Hyseni et al., 2016). Labelling can also drive reformulation through a desire to show healthier content of food (Mhurchu et al., 2017). 
Case studies
This section presents four brief case study examples of specific interventions used in the UK to influence food consumption decisions and the evaluation evidence on their effectiveness. The specific case study examples represent a selection based on the availability of evaluation evidence in the literature. The aim was to present interventions that have been applied on a wider scale and draw lessons from these. It is notable that 
36 The Public Health Responsibility Deal was a voluntary approach in which businesses and other organisations could 
sign up to commitments that would improve public health. Launched in March 2011, partners signing up set out a 
series of pledges that they commit to deliver, spanning topics such as food, alcohol, physical activity and health at work (Knai et al., 2015). most of the included interventions are aimed at 
changing consumption to improve health. This reflects the level of evidence available in the literature. It is difficult to identify good-quality evaluation evidence on interventions aiming to improve sustainable or ethical consumption. The case studies were also chosen to provide examples across the three intervention categories aimed at targeting: knowledge and information, food environment, and cost and content of food. Three of these are national level interventions and one was targeted at the north east of England. The case studies highlight examples that worked and some that did not, with evidence as to why. 
The Public Health 
Responsibility Deal 
What is the intervention?
The Public Health Responsibility Deal was 
an initiative launched in March 2011 by the Department of Health (now the Department of Health and Social Care) (Department of Health, n.d.). The PHRD has since closed with the initiatives being taken forward through other government policy such as the Childhood Obesity Plan.
What is the target population and what did 
the intervention aim to do?
The Responsibility Deal was a national-level 
public–private partnership that aimed to encourage food companies (e.g. retailers, manufacturers, caterers and out-of-home outlets) and other actors (e.g. third sector and non-governmental organisations) to contribute to improving public health. It involves voluntary agreements between the government and 