43
and vegetable intake (Afshin et al., 2015; Geaney 
et al., 2013; Gudzune et al., 2013; Jepson et al., 2010; Niebylski et al., 2014; Schliemann & Woodside, 2019). There is also some evidence 
that workplace well-being initiatives can impact on wider outcomes such as preventing weight gain, reducing fat intake, aiding weight loss and reducing cholesterol (Gudzune et al., 2013; Schliemann & Woodside, 2019). 
However, not all programmes are equally 
effective and there is significant variation in the nature of the wellness programmes making it difficult to draw overarching conclusions. The quality of evaluations is also poor, with limited duration of follow-up, small sample sizes and other issues limiting the strength of the evidence particularly in terms of long-term outcomes. More evidence is needed on the characteristics of effective workplace interventions (A. Afshin et al., 2015; Geaney et al., 2013; Gudzune et al., 2013; Schliemann & Woodside, 2019) . Emerging evidence suggests 
that interventions are more likely to be effective when tailored for the workforce in question and to capitalise on the social and environmental context of the particular workplace, as well as when multifaceted and supported by management (Schliemann & Woodside, 2019). 
There is little research on the effect of 
changing food provision and procurement in other public settings such as hospitals
Some individual studies show positive effects 
when improving the quality of food provided in hospitals and in food delivered at home to low-income older people (M. L. Niebylski et al., 2014). There are also studies using university canteens and other settings as experimental settings for changes in food placement (e.g. Hollands et al., 2015; Walmsley et al., 2018), but there are no identified studies looking at changes in procurement policy in these wider settings.There is growing evidence that the 
local food environment can affect consumption. Policy actions to address the built food environment have not been widely implemented or evaluated
There is very limited evidence on the impact 
of policies aiming to regulate or change the environment in terms of density or prevalence of fast-food outlets or to address food deserts. There is a strong association between obesity and access to unhealthy food – for example, through a high concentration of unhealthy fast-food outlets. However, many studies are cross-sectional so the direction of causality is unclear and the correlation may be mediated by socio-economic status and educational attainment (A. Afshin et al., 2015; Beaulac et al., 2009; Cobb et al., 2015; Fleischhacker et al., 2011). In addition, although there are few longitudinal studies (A. Afshin et al., 2015; Cobb et al., 2015), emerging evidence indicates that the local food environment may have moderate effects on consumption (Caspi et al., 2012). However, there are some limitations in the evidence, in part due to the low quality of many existing studies (Cobb et al., 2015), and also because understanding and measuring what constitutes the relevant environment can be challenging (Williams et al., 2014). This needs to be better understood to support effective policy development. There are no examples of evaluations or reported implementation of policy interventions addressing the built food environment in the academic literature.
Changes in the micro environment, or 
‘nudges’, such as food placement and portion size, can be effective in some contexts
There is mixed evidence of the effectiveness 
of changes to the micro environment – the specific ways in which food is presented and located within a food outlet – on changing food consumption. Most evidence looks at portion 