41
in changing consumption habits (Dudley et al., 
2015; Jepson et al., 2010; Muzaffar et al., 2018; Rekhy & McConchie, 2014).  Interventions are diverse and tend to focus on developing students’ knowledge and skills, and many have a particular focus on increasing the consumption of fruit and vegetables (Jepson et al., 2010; Muzaffar et al., 2018; Rekhy & McConchie, 2014). The most effective interventions are those that have simple and unambiguous messages, are more intensive or longer running and involve wider family members (Rekhy & McConchie, 2014). Most notably, interactive, experiential learning is most effective (Dudley et al., 2015; Rekhy & McConchie, 2014).
However, evaluation evidence suggests 
that information campaigns to increase the consumption of fruit and vegetables have mostly changed consumption over the short term but not on a sustained, longer-term basis (e.g. effects were not maintained at 12 months) (Rekhy & McConchie, 2014; Upton et al., 2013). Similarly, an evaluation of a cooking intervention delivered in English primary schools found positive impacts on consumption but only measured effects up to four weeks after the intervention (Caraher et al., 2013). 
Nutrition advice and support in a 
healthcare setting can change eating habits
There is good-quality evidence that providing 
nutrition counselling and support through general practitioners and other similar settings can help change consumption (Jepson et al., 2010). The mode of delivery also matters. Most evidence is on in-person counselling (Jepson et al., 2010); there is limited evidence that telehealth approaches can be effective (Kelly et al., 2016) and that online, e-learning approaches may not be (Harris et al., 2011).
It is likely that advertising regulation 
could impact consumption, but currently the evidence is limited
The effectiveness of advertising regulation 
is currently poorly understood. This is partly due to limitations in the ways in which policies have been implemented, and partly due to a lack of good-quality evaluations of their impact (A. Afshin et al., 2015; Chambers et al., 2015; Box 6 Examples of front-of-pack food labelling interventions used in the UK and their effectiveness 
(continued) 
There is less evidence around the use and understanding of sustainable and ethical labels by 
consumers. Existing evidence suggests that in general, consumers have limited awareness of sustainability labels and level of use is low (Garnett et al., 2015; Grunert et al., 2014). There also appears to be confusion due to the existence of multiple labels (Grunert et al., 2014). A study investigating the use of carbon labels in the UK found that consumer demand for such labels is high but understanding is low (Gadema & Oglethorpe, 2011). In addition, there appears to be a value-action gap in that consumers report high concern for sustainability and demand for such labels, but this does not translate into a change in practices due to competing issues of perceived quality and price (Grunert et al., 2014). A recent survey commissioned by the Marine Stewardship Council found a high demand (83 per cent) for independent ethical labels but that consumers prioritise price before sustainability (Askew, 2018).