45
increases consumption of healthy foods by 14 
per cent, while a 10 per cent tax/price increase reduces consumption of unhealthy foods by 7 per cent (Afshin et al., 2017). Moreover, the evidence typically shows data for purchasing decisions (which is used as a proxy for consumption) but there is less evidence on actual consumption (A Afshin et al., 2017; Hartmann-Boyce et al., 2018). Evidence suggests that consumption of food away from home and soft drinks, juice and meats more generally may be most responsive to price changes (Andreyeva et al., 2010).
The impact of taxes is mixed and socio-
economic factors also affect response to policy actions. Price changes through taxes or subsidies are regressive and disproportionately have more impact on those with lower incomes (Barrett et al., 2017; McGill et al., 2015) because they spend a larger proportion of their income on food and because they tend to buy relatively cheaper foods (Jensen et al., 2011; Thow et al., 2010). However, some studies argue that this cost may be outweighed by the health benefits that tend to be larger for lower-income groups given higher levels of consumption of products such as sugary drinks  (Barrett et al., 2017; McGill et al., 2015). These groups are also less likely to engage with labelling (Campos et al., 2011).
Impacts of taxes and subsidies on the 
food system as a whole can be complex and are not fully understood
An important limitation of studies investigating 
taxes or subsidies is that many of these are based on models that may in some cases not consider shifts in consumption within or across food categories in response to taxes and subsidies (An, 2013; Garnett et al., 2015; Thow et al., 2010). Substitution is an important issue that is not fully understood. Taxes/price increases can lead to substitution at two levels: consumers may buy different (and potentially also unhealthy) foods; and producers may replace a particular target product with other unhealthy content (for example, reducing sugar but increasing fat). These behaviours are not well understood and typically not incorporated into modelling studies (Eyles et al., 2012; Smith 
et al., 2018; Thow et al., 2010). 
However, some studies do account for these 
cross price effects, and still show that taxes may have an effect on consumption (e.g. Briggs et al. 2016). In addition, there are some studies based on real-world data, showing for example that the sugar levy has decreased the sugar content of sugar-sweetened beverages by 22 per cent (Public Health England, 2019) and comparably that minimum pricing on alcohol in Scotland is delivering the intended reductions in alcohol sales (O’Donnell et al., 2019).  
The way that financial instruments affect 
supply chains are complex and may vary. Subsidies at early stages in the supply chain (e.g. agricultural subsidies) are not a good predictor of consumption patterns (Alston et al., 2008; Garnett et al., 2015). Where the costs of other interventions are borne is sometimes unclear and costs may or may not be passed on to the consumer as intended, e.g. by shifting to other products. 
Reformulation of foods may alter 
consumption and a number of policy approaches can motivate industry to change the content of their products
Changing the content of food, reducing fat or 
sugar for example, can be effective in changing intake and producing positive health outcomes (Federici et al., 2019; Grieger et al., 2017; K. M. Hashem et al., 2019). The evidence is stronger for salt reduction than for sugar and fats, and evidence is based on modelling studies that might not take into account substitution as noted above (Federici et al., 2019; Grieger et al., 2017; K. M. Hashem et al., 2019) . 