48
Food consumption in the UK
the importance of designing well-defined, 
quantitative targets that are evidence-based to ensure that once implemented, public health policies have a positive effect on population health. 
The Responsibility Deal was found to have 
low additionality: Moreover, where the authors 
could assess, they found that the Responsibility Deal had relatively low additionality, in that most of the interventions included in the research were likely not developed as a result of the Responsibility Deal programme. Only 26 per cent of interventions were ‘likely’ brought about by the Responsibility Deal, suggesting that organisations had mostly committed to interventions that had already happened or were already underway when the Responsibility Deal started. 
A range of factors are required for a voluntary 
approach: The authors highlight that a 
number of factors are important to ensure the success of a voluntary approach (as opposed to a regulatory measure), many of which were not met by the Responsibility Deal. These include: having well-defined, evidence-based quantitative targets; involvement of public and civil society organisations in the development and monitoring of the pledges; and clear sanctions for not demonstrating progress against targets. In the case of the Responsibility Deal, the majority (95 per cent) of signatories were from the corporate food sector, which raises concerns about the motivations to promote health objectives. 
Food for Life  
schools programme
What is the intervention?
The Food for Life schools programme is an initiative launched in 2007 that is led by the Soil Association in collaboration with other charities, including Focus on Food, Garden Organic, the Health Education Trust and the Royal Society for Public Health.
What is the target population and what did 
the intervention aim to do?
Food for Life is a national programme that 
initially started as a school-focused initiative to improve food in schools but in its second phase has also expanded its remit to other settings (e.g. hospitals, workplaces, care homes and universities). The aim is to promote the micro food environment or define food culture in these settings to make food healthier and more sustainable. The programme adopts a ‘whole settings approach’, with schools, nurseries, hospitals, care homes, food providers and the wider community working together to implement the programme. As of June 2015, 5,208 schools, 31 workplaces, 20 hospitals and 2 care home groups across England were enrolled in the programme.
What is the category of intervention?
The initiative spans several policy categories, including providing knowledge and information and changing the food environment. The programme adopts a ‘whole settings approach’ and focuses on four objectives: (1) support around access to healthy and sustainable food; (2) providing skills and knowledge; (3) enabling a change in food culture within schools; and (4) enabling a change in culture across the wider health and education systems. A key mechanism is to encourage all school stakeholders to be involved (i.e. pupils, staff, parents and the wider community). The programme employs two mechanisms that work together to achieve these objectives. One is an awards scheme to encourage schools to make changes to promote a culture of good food. The scheme aims to encourage changes to people and the environment both within and beyond schools. Schools work towards bronze, silver and gold awards. To date, 1,087 Food for 