42
Food consumption in the UK
Galbraith-Emami & Lobstein, 2013; Mills et al., 
2013). 
One limitation of policy implementation is 
comprehensiveness. For example, in the UK, statutory scheduling (restrictions on the times of marketing to children of foods high in fat, sugar or salt) were more than offset by increased advertising of these products in other hours, so that overall exposure to such marketing did not change in children and substantially increased in adults (Jean Adams, Tyrrell, et al., 2012). Another limitation is that regulations are often limited to certain media – for example, many do not cover online advertising (A. Afshin et al., 2015). 
Nonetheless, there is strong evidence that 
advertising influences the food preferences and choices of children (Cairns et al., 2009), and more limited evidence that this may be true for adults too (Mills et al., 2013). This implies that advertising regulation could be effective. Indeed, there is evidence that advertising restrictions are associated with a moderate reduction in smoking (Wilson et al., 2012).
Food environment
Changing the availability of food through adjustments to the food environment is another policy approach to changing consumption that is now receiving more attention. This can include changes in provision of food in places that people spend much of their time – schools, hospitals and the workplace – as well as changing the built environment and the types of food outlets readily available to people where they live. Changes can also be made to the environment on a ‘micro’ level – for example, changing the placement of food or portion size within shops, restaurants and other food outlets. Changes in the food environment seem broadly effective in changing food consumption, though the evidence in some settings (the built environment, public settings other than schools – e.g. hospitals) are too limited to draw any concrete conclusions.
Changing the food available in schools 
can have a significant impact on children’s consumption
The provision of fruit and vegetables in schools 
may increase overall fruit consumption according to an evaluation of one programme in the US, although a systematic review of 27 programmes found only moderate increases in fruit consumption (Coyle et al., 2009; Evans et al., 2012). Other interventions focus on the healthiness of school meals, i.e setting standards or developing guidelines on the nutritional content of school food provision, and changing school food procurement in line with healthier eating. Overall, the interventions are generally effective in increasing intake of healthy foods and reducing intake of unhealthy foods (Afshin et al., 2015; Niebylski et al., 2014), and one systematic review found that interventions that focused on restricting unhealthy foods (e.g. through restrictions or bans) were generally effective in decreasing levels of being overweight/obese (A. Afshin et al., 2015). 
Governmental and school policies appeared 
more effective compared to voluntary programs, and changing procurement policies seems more effective than setting nutrition standards (A. Afshin et al., 2015).  Interventions that bring together changes in food provision with educational interventions are found to be particularly effective in improving children’s consumption and health (Evans et al., 2012; Niebylski et al., 2014) .
Worksite well-being programmes 
can have impacts on consumption, specifically fruit and vegetable intake
There is strong evidence that worksite well-
being interventions can have a small positive effect on healthy eating, most notably on fruit 