52
Food consumption in the UK
the health worker component), which led to 
lack of clarity around roles and responsibilities.  
The Soft Drinks  
Industry Levy
What is the intervention?
The Soft Drinks Industry Levy (SDIL) is an 
initiative that was announced by the chancellor of the exchequer in March 2016 and came in to force, through legislation, in April 2018 (Public Health England, 2019). 
What is the target population and what did 
the intervention aim to do?
SDIL or the ‘sugar tax’ is a legislated national 
level initiative that aims to encourage individuals to reduce their consumption of sugar. 
What is the category of intervention?
The main aim of the policy is to encourage the reformulation of soft drinks to reduce their added sugar content. It does this via a two-tiered ‘levy’ or tax on manufacturers and importers of specific soft drinks (excluding some products such as fruit juice, milk-based drinks and alcohol). There is a charge of 18p per litre if the drink contains 5g of total sugar or more per 100ml and 24p per litre if the drink contains 8g of total sugar or more per 100ml. Other objectives of the policy were to:
• Reduce the portion size of a product likely to be consumed in a single occasion 
• Shift consumers’ purchasing patterns towards lower or no added sugar products.What was the effect of the intervention?
Early evidence suggests that the levy has reduced the consumption of sugar from drinks subject to the levy: In 2019, Public Health England published the second progress report for the sugar reduction programme, which it oversees on behalf of government. The report also included data on changes seen in drinks that are subject to the SDIL (Public Health England, 2019) between 2015 and 2018. Specifically, the report states that there has been a 28.8 per cent reduction in total sugar content per 100ml for purchased retailer own brand and manufacturer branded soft drinks that are subject to the levy. A similar reduction was seen for drinks sold through the out-of-home sector. Although there has been an increase in sales of drinks subject to the levy of 10.2 per cent, there has been a reduction in total sugar content of the drinks sold of 21.6 per cent. There has also been a shift in sales towards lower sugar products (below 5g per 100ml) that have no levy attached. The calorie content of drinks subject to the levy fell by 20.5 per cent. 
Analysis by socio-economic 
group of head of household shows that the 
total sugar purchased per household from drinks subject to SDIL has decreased in all groups, but this reduction is smallest in the lowest socio-economic group. 
The report 
states that the analysis has not accounted 
for other factors that could be causing this difference, such as price changes and household characteristics (such as size and family composition) but concludes that further analysis is required to understand the observed changes.