51
food environment (by increasing access to 
healthy food) but also provide knowledge and information to increase awareness of healthy diets. The policy had three main objectives:
• To increase the access and availability of fresh fruit and vegetables in deprived areas.
• To increase the sales of fresh fruit and vegetables, through increased range, quality and better communication in shops.
• To improve awareness of fruit and vegetables to consumers through the Change4Life brand.
Interventions were introduced in two categories: intensive interventions in 17 ‘demonstration’ stores and less intensive in 70 ‘roll-out’ stores. A wide range of interventions were introduced: provision of chiller cabinets to help shops stock a wider range of fruits and vegetables; changes to the shop layout to place fruit and vegetables more prominently at the front of shops (also to address ‘impulse’ buys); expanding the space for fruit and vegetables; and promotional activities such as provision of a leaflet to houses within a one-mile radius of the shops to raise awareness of the new scheme. Both types of stores had similar interventions but these were slightly less extensive for the roll-out stores.
What was the effect of the intervention?
Several evaluations of the programme were conducted. A small-scale evaluation during the early phases of the programme was conducted in 2010 (Department of Health, 2010). An evaluation into the long-term implementation of the programme was conducted in 2012 (Jean Adams, Halligan, et al., 2012). It should be noted that there was considerable variation between the types of stores that were involved (e.g. size, business model, existing links with the community) but nonetheless the evaluation concludes that the overall pattern of change was consistent across stores.
The intervention is unlikely to have had long-
term effects on customers’ consumption of fruit and vegetables: The early-stage evaluation concluded that the programme was effective at achieving its objectives, suggesting that there was an improvement in customers’ perception of the quality, selection and visibility of fruit and vegetables, and sales of fruit and vegetables increased. However, the evaluation conducted two years after initial implementation concludes that overall the intervention is unlikely to have had a substantial or long-term effect on customers’ consumption of fruit and vegetables. 
The intervention was found to have low 
‘fidelity’: There was low availability of branded Change4Life, point-of-sale materials and equipment (e.g. a branded chill cabinet) and these were not used appropriately by all stores. In addition, this equipment was not long lasting and was not replaced, and there was a lack of financial support for food waste in the early stages. The evaluation found a number of possible reasons for why the intervention was unsuccessful. 
There was poor communication between 
stakeholders: There was evidence that one barrier to successful delivery of the intervention was communication with different actors, and particularly between local level teams and national level oversight. Better communication, both at the outset and on an ongoing basis, could improve the chances of success for this type of intervention (Adams et al., 2012).
There was a lack of clarity around roles and 
responsibilities: There was some lack of 
clarity regarding the intended links between health workers, schools and community organisations. It was suggested that this was because a number of aspects of the intervention were added retrospectively (e.g. 