53
This chapter reflects on the evidence regarding 
the trends and drivers of food consumption and their implications for policy, as well as the different interventions to change consumption and evidence of their effectiveness. The chapter first summarises the key messages on food consumption arising from the evidence in the literature. It then presents an overview of different interventions and evidence of their effectiveness. Finally, the chapter concludes with a summary of key evidence gaps in the existing literature and, based on this, proposes a number of possible priority areas for action and for further research. 
What do we know about food 
consumption?
Food matters – the food individuals eat 
influences health and the environment 
Unhealthy and nutritionally poor diets lead to 
ill health, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, obesity and associated poor health and mortality (Ashkan Afshin et al., 2019; WHO, 2014). The current food system and people’s food practices have negative impacts on the environment, leading to greenhouse gas emissions, deforestation and biodiversity loss (Garnett et al., 2015). Addressing these complex challenges requires changing how food is produced to ensure it is more sustainable, and, importantly, changing consumption to ensure it is healthier and more sustainable.
A minority of consumers increasingly care 
but most diets still fall short of nutritional guidelines and many consumers do not always act in line with their beliefs
There is good evidence that policymakers 
are increasingly aware of the negative environmental impacts of food production systems (Apostolidis & McLeay, 2016; Lang & Mason, 2018) and some consumers are increasingly aware of the health and sustainability issues related to their food practices (FSA, 2019b, 2019a; WRAP , 2015). This is reflected in the increasing sales of ethical and sustainable produce, and increasing numbers of plant-based, particularly vegetarian and ‘flexitarian’, diets (George, 2019).  
There is strong evidence to suggest that 
although diets are slowly becoming less unhealthy, UK consumption still falls well short of nutritional guidelines. Trends show small reductions in the consumption of salt and sugar, and even slight reductions in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and fibre. The UK population also consumes some of the highest amounts of processed and ultra-processed food in Europe (Carlos Augusto Monteiro et al., 2018). 
Although survey evidence indicates that an 
increasing number of individuals consider ethics, sustainability and health to be important Reflections – what does the evidence say 
about food consumption in the UK, and what should policymakers do next?6