59
such as hospitals or universities. Although 
there is an association between access to unhealthy food and obesity, few policies that address the built food environment have been implemented or evaluated. ‘Nudges’ to change consumers’ purchasing behaviour by altering food placement and portion size appear to be effective in certain contexts, such as in supermarkets and in schools, but the evidence is limited by a lack of good-quality studies.
Changing the cost and content of 
food can be effective at changing consumption but the complexity of possible substitution effects is not yet fully understood
The evidence suggests that subsidies and 
taxation can encourage the consumption of healthier foods. However, data are mostly based on modelling studies rather than real-world data. Therefore, more good-quality evidence is needed to better understand some of the complex substitution effects. The evidence also suggests that the size of the price change needs to be significant (at least 20 per cent) to drive changes. Generally, initiatives to encourage the reformulation of food – to reduce the content of salt, sugar and fat – also appear to be effective at encouraging healthier consumption. Emerging evidence indicates that the SDIL has reduced the consumption of sugar, although possible substitution effects remain unknown. Contrary to expectation, initial evaluation results of SDIL found that the reduction in sugar consumption has been smallest in individuals from lower socio-economic groups (who are expected to be affected the most by price increases). This discrepancy between expected effects of price increases and observed behaviour suggests that other factors than price may influence the effects of subsidies and taxation. The evidence so far suggests that ‘upstream’, population-wide mandatory approaches, such as maximum limits or restrictions, seem most effective in driving significant changes in consumption compared with voluntary approaches.
There is often little evidence on the 
longer-term outcomes of interventions 
Studies and evaluations often do not take into 
account the longer-term outcomes of specific interventions. Most interventions are evaluated within a short timeframe, which limits the ability to assess whether their effectiveness is long lasting. Another limitation is that many evaluations focus on intermediate rather than ultimate outcomes – for example, looking at changes in views or awareness rather than actions. Building the evidence base through more comprehensive evaluations and more longitudinal studies that enable us to look at active changes in behaviour would support more evidence-based interventions in this space.
Possible priority areas for further 
consideration by policymakers
There are a number of different trends, drivers, 
individual differences and interventions related to food and food consumption that are dealt with in the academic literature. However, there are still significant gaps in the evidence base. Some factors have high-quality evidence but are not extensively written about in the academic literature. Other factors have low- or moderate-quality evidence in the academic literature. Table 6 gives an overview of areas 
explored in the literature on food consumption behaviours and practices and illustrates both the quality and availability of the evidence for each factor. Building on this, we identify a number of key evidence gaps in the existing literature in Box 7. Based on these key evidence 
gaps, there are a number of priority areas that policymakers could consider, which are presented below and summarised in Box 8.