58
Food consumption in the UK
Food decisions are not always 
consciously deliberated and are determined by culture, social environment and sense of identity, and what we eat is often a matter of habit and convenience
Although there are a number of broad trends 
that affect consumption, there are a myriad of cultural, societal and personal factors that lead to different ‘food publics’ with different values and practices. In addition to socio-economic status (e.g. income and education), demographic factors such as gender and age also strongly affect values and beliefs, leading to differences in terms of health and sustainable consumption. Food decisions are not always the outcome of conscious deliberation; habit, time and convenience are also powerful drivers of consumption and can make it difficult for many individuals to exercise choice and change consumption. Therefore, it is particularly important for policy responses to take into account these personal factors. However, population segmentation approaches, which could be used to determine appropriate responses, are usually highly context specific and need to be used with caution in their application to policy design and implementation.
Overview of interventions and 
their likely effectiveness
Knowledge and information can increase 
awareness but the ability to change behaviours is limited by social, economic and personal factors
Although some individuals do exercise choice 
using information such as food labels, their ability to choose is limited by cost, time and wider influences both in terms of the food environment and at a personal level. In addition, food decisions are not always conscious and therefore may not be actively information driven. Mass media campaigns can increase awareness, particularly if they are targeted and have an influential messenger, but there is less evidence that they can change behaviours. Similarly, food labelling does seem to help some consumers choose healthier products, but their use may also be limited to health-conscious individuals, with lower use in children, adolescents, older adults and individuals of lower socio-economic status. Consistent evidence indicates that provision of knowledge and information may have a greater impact on individuals with higher socio-economic status, and may possibly serve to widen inequalities if used in isolation (Friel et al., 2015; McGill et al., 2015). Therefore, policies around education and information provision alone are unlikely to be sufficient to change behaviours (since these are contingent on action by individuals). Although there is scope to use the provision of knowledge and information to raise awareness, for example of sustainability issues around consumption, their use should be combined with other approaches to enable collective behaviour change across all population groups. 
Policymakers can help to provide 
environments that enable people to make healthy and sustainable food choices more easily
There are a variety of interventions that can 
affect the food environment, spanning from the provision of healthy foods in public settings, to changes to the built food environment (e.g. the availability of fast-food outlets) and ‘nudges’ to change consumer behaviour through the micro environment (e.g. the presentation of food in supermarkets). Changing the food environment through this spectrum of interventions broadly seems effective at changing consumption practices, but there is currently a lack of good-quality studies. There is good evidence that interventions in settings such as schools and the workplace can help to increase fruit and vegetable consumption, but evidence is lacking for other public settings 