57
The food environment is changing but 
the full impact of this on consumption is unclear
The food environment is changing and 
becoming increasingly diverse and fragmented, with impacts on what people eat. In particular, the growth of the out-of-home sector is significant, with implications for the consumption of salt, sugar and fat (Caraher & Hughes, 2019). In addition, although most consumers continue to source their food from large ‘traditional’ supermarkets, other forms of retailer (e.g. mini supermarkets) are increasing in popularity (FSA, 2019b). In particular, individuals are increasingly shopping for food online and using food delivery services, including supermarket home delivery and other forms of home delivery (e.g. vegetable boxes, Hello Fresh and Amazon Fresh). Although use currently remains low, this is a trend that is predicted to increase (FSA, 2019b). 
Despite the increasing importance of the online 
grocery shopping market, there is currently a lack of research evidence around the impact of digitalisation and its influence on consumption (Dablanc et al., 2017). The evidence around how online shopping and home delivery affects consumption and consumer diets is lacking. To date, studies that have found mixed results, with some evidence that online shopping can drive both healthy and unhealthy choices. For example, shopping online can reduce the likelihood of buying unhealthy foods due to a reduction in impulse purchases and can be a way to overcome healthy food accessibility challenges. However, it can also increase the chances of buying unhealthy products, since consumers may be more reluctant or able to buy fresh products online (Jilcott Pitts et al., 2018). It is also not clear to what extent online consumers differ from offline consumers in terms of other factors such as price sensitivity (e.g. propensity to engage with offers) (Munson et al., 2017).The food environment, which is likely 
shaped by powerful food system actors, is a significant driver of consumption
There is strong and consistent evidence that, 
in addition to price and perceived value for money as some of the primary drivers, the food environment in terms of availability, marketing and advertising has a significant influence on consumption (Public Health England, 2017). Although many individuals are aware that eating a healthy diet and being physically active is necessary, they are constrained by the current food environment. There is a strong association between obesity and access to unhealthy food – for example, through the built environment (e.g. through a high concentration of fast-food outlets) (Public Health England, 2017). The micro environment (e.g. through food placement and portion sizes) can also influence consumption; the use of end of aisle displays and shelf placement in supermarkets is known to impact on purchasing decisions (Glanz et al., 2012). Manufacturers, retailers and transnational food corporations play a big role in encouraging the consumption of unhealthy and processed foods. For example, marketing and advertising by industry and retailers has a significant effect on food purchases, particularly driving the consumption of unhealthy food in children and young people (Buchanan et al., 2018; Griffith et al., 2015; MacGregor & Bicquelet, 2016). However, retailers can also be key actors in promoting healthy food environments (Roberto et al., 2015). Given the mixed evidence and lack of controlled studies, more good-quality research is needed on the impact of specific food system actors.