50
Food consumption in the UK
the Food for Life ethos was also found to 
protect against staff turnover. 
The programme has promoted healthier 
practices: Pupils in Food for Life schools 
consumed more fruit and vegetables than pupils in comparison schools. There was also a ‘spillover’ effect in that fruit and vegetable consumption was also higher at home, showing a positive spread of the programme into the wider community.
The programme has successfully scaled 
up to other settings beyond schools:  There 
is potential for the programme to extend beyond the school setting (e.g. nurseries, care homes and hospitals), with evidence that the programme has helped to improve the quality of the food served.
The programme provides a positive social 
return on investment: The evaluation found 
that for every £1 spent on Food for Life, there is social value of £4.41 created over a three-year period in terms of the value created for health, education and the environment.
There were several challenges with the 
programme: The evaluation found that there are some challenges associated with achieving sustained impacts from the Food for Life programme. Achieving long-term impact may depend on several factors, such as the initial motivation for engaging with the programme. Factors likely to promote long-term engagement include a committed leadership and embedding the food policy within the school through committed staff. If the main motivation is to gain an award, then this is less likely to deliver long-term impacts. Results also showed that it seems more difficult to engage and maintain the commitment of secondary schools. The evaluation also speculated that schools with the most long-term positive impact and progress may be those that had a pre-existing commitment to this priority. Financial barriers prevent all organisations from investing in Food for Life, particularly those supporting some of the more vulnerable individuals. Healthy and sustainable food is not always the cheapest option and a legacy of catering systems driven by low cost provision prevents the switch to healthier options. The motivation to drive change often relies on having a leading figure, which may not always be present, and also renders progress vulnerable to changes in personnel. Another challenge is around the delivery of the whole settings approach, with some organisations choosing to only deliver certain aspects of the programme, which acts to prevent embedded and long-term change. 
Change4Life convenience 
store programme
What is the intervention?
The Change4Life convenience store 
programme is an initiative launched in 2008 by the Department of Health (Department of Health, 2010). It is part of the wider Change4Life programme, a national health promotion programme.
What is the target population and what did 
the intervention aim to do?
Change4Life aimed to increase the provision 
of fresh fruit and vegetables in convenience stores, particularly in deprived areas. Located at the heart of many deprived communities, convenience stores are often important outlets for low-income individuals but also those individuals who use it for ‘top-up’ shopping. A pilot phase of the project was conducted in the north east of England, an area with high deprivation and high use of convenience stores.
What is the category of intervention?
The intervention spans across several policy categories; it aims to primarily improve the 