ix
Cost impacts on the healthiness, ethics and 
sustainability of food choices, with consumers less likely to pay for these types of foods if the price is perceived to be too high. However, the impact of cost is also modulated by factors such as income, education level and gender.  
Availability and convenience  influence the 
scope for consumers to make choices in a 
given food environment. Individuals are more likely to be healthy in different environments (e.g. at work, school or the supermarket) if healthy options are made available. Individuals are also likely to be healthy or socially responsible due to convenience, for example through the delivery of organic vegetable boxes. Conversely, the presence of relatively cheaper and unhealthy food also influences the extent to which they are consumed and hence the quality of peoples’ diets.
Marketing has a significant effect on 
consumer choices, in particular increasing the consumption of unhealthy food, especially in children and young people. Emerging evidence suggests that social media is increasingly influencing younger segments of the population.  
The built and micro food environments  are 
likely to influence what we eat but there is 
contrasting evidence about the specific nature of the impact. Home, school and university are thought to be associated with healthier food choices compared with fast-food restaurants and convenience stores; however, the evidence is mixed. The placement of food in supermarkets likely influences consumers’ food choices. Food environments are also socially and culturally embedded, and so necessarily interact with other drivers such as social relationships and social identity.
Food system actors  have a strong influence 
in shaping and constraining the food choices 
made by consumers ( Figure 3). The food 
industry, including manufacturers and retailers, determine the content of products and the placement and availability of food, but also influence consumers through education/information campaigns, labelling and price promotions. Big transnational food corporations can have a negative influence on diets through driving the demand for processed food and the fast-food market. National and local government, together with civil society organisations, also actively shape the food environment through the implementation of policies. There are many other food system actors, including media, family, friends and schools. Although the literature cites a variety of food system actors as being important in influencing the food environment and consumption practices, there is no evidence on their relative importance.
Clear and simple information  can influence 
consumers’ purchasing behaviour; however, 
this depends on the type and format of the information, and also on socio-demographic differences. Consumers have varying levels of trust in different sources and channels. Packaging information is more likely to be used by individuals with a higher socio-economic background. Consumers may also place higher value on information about nutritional quality rather than information on social responsibility of products.
Food safety  is a concern for some consumers 
when choosing food, with the type and 
level of concern shaped by products and environments. Consumers are particularly concerned about food safety when choosing meat products and when in the out-of-home food environment compared with food prepared at home. 
Other important drivers include provenance of 
food, perceived food quality, food production 
technologies  and technology  in general, but the 
evidence around their importance and impact on consumption is less clear. Locally or nationally sourced products are often associated with perceived higher quality. Some consumers are 