x
Food consumption in the UK
Figure 3 Overview of the food systems actors that the literature cites as important in shaping 
consumption practices in the UK
Source: RAND Europe analysis.
concerned about food production technologies, 
but this depends on the technology and does not always influence choice. Generally, increasing digitalisation is likely to influence consumer practices, with evidence that consumers are increasingly purchasing food online, although the impact of digitalisation on consumption is currently unclear.
Individual and social differences 
– how do different people make decisions about food?
The UK population is not homogeneous 
and there are multiple ‘food publics’ with different experiences, beliefs and attitudes, which should be taken into account when understanding consumption patterns as well as policies to change them. Figure 4 provides 
an overview of individual and social differences in food consumption and how these interact with the wider food environment.
Socio-demographic differences are an 
important predictor of consumption in both adults and children. Low socio-economic status (in terms of education level, work status and income) is the single most consistent risk factor for not consuming a healthy diet. Other important factors include age and gender.
Food decisions are rarely rational in the sense 
of being fully conscious and reflective, and instead are driven by largely unconscious mechanisms, such as cultural and social norms, heuristics, habit and emotions. This implies that simple interventions aiming to provide information to consumers are likely to have limited effectiveness as they rely on active and rational decision making that is not necessarily characteristic of many consumption decisions.UK FOOD 
INDUSTRY
FOOD 
AUTHORITIESOTHER 
IMPORTANT 
ACTORSMEDIACONSUMERFriends Family
Traditional mediaSocial media
National government Local councilsSupermarkets
Fast-food 
takeaways
Restaurants
Cafe
Mobile vendors
Corner shops
Convenience 
stores
Market stalls
Online food 
delivery schemesSchoolsNon-governmental 
organisationsUK food processing industry
UK food 
retailing industry
Transnational 
food corporationsCivil society organisations