64
Food consumption in the UK
that influence the actions and decisions that 
individuals take, and targeting these in isolation is unlikely to be effective. Therefore, although information can serve to raise awareness and even change values (as in the case of the increase in socially and ethically responsible diets), other factors such as income and price remain important barriers to behaviour change, and likely require additional policy responses to address. In addition to economic factors, many other factors (including habit, time and convenience) impact on consumption, with food decisions often far from purely conscious and knowledge led. There are also important socio-demographic differences, individual differences and continued inequalities across the trends, drivers and likely responses to policy that need to be taken into account. In particular, the evidence strongly suggests that policies around education alone are unlikely to be sufficient to change actions and may even serve to widen inequalities (since these are contingent on action by individuals). Therefore, combining information and knowledge provision with population-level approaches focusing on the food environment, and the cost and content of food, could help to promote healthier food choices across the population. 
Figure 11 shows a conceptual framework 
that illustrates the multitude of drivers of food consumption and their interaction. Drivers include individual level, at the level of the food environment and wider, contextual drivers. The figure highlights the importance of targeting multiple drivers, both at the individual level but also the food environment, in order to change practices.
Invest in evaluations of the effectiveness 
of interventions that target the wider (and changing) food environment 
Despite awareness by a majority of individuals of 
the need for a healthy diet, for most people the ability to change is limited by their environment. Interventions are increasingly targeting the content of food (directly or indirectly such as through taxes) – for example, the soft drinks industry levy and reformulation as part of the PHRD – and emerging evidence suggests that some of these are effective, particularly when mandatory. However, to date, there are few policies or examples of evaluations that target the built and micro environment and the availability of unhealthy food. Although there is strong evidence to suggest that product placement in supermarkets has a strong influence on purchase decisions, evidence and conclusions on the effectiveness of changes to the micro environment are in part limited by a lack of good-quality studies and the fact that many studies are conducted in a lab rather than a real-world setting (Bucher et al., 2016; Driessen et al., 2014; 
Hartmann-Boyce et al., 2018; Skov et al., 2013). 
Both policy and research as yet does not 
effectively reflect changing modes of consumption and information sources, particularly in relation to online and out of home. For example, most media campaigns are conducted through television (J Kite et al., 2018), with evidence on the use of newer, online media lacking (James Kite et al., 2016). Evidence on the purchase of food through online routes is also currently limited. Both policy and research need to progress to ensure adequate information is available and appropriate policy responses are in place to reflect our changing food environment.
Gather real-world evidence around 
subsidies, taxes and reformulation programmes to better understand potential substitution effects
Although emerging evidence shows that prices, 
subsidies and reformulation of foods can positively change consumption, it is important to conduct more real-world evaluations and studies to better understand the impacts of these policies. Currently, our understanding 