66
Food consumption in the UK
Collect evidence on longer-term 
outcomes and more longitudinal data
It is notable that there is relatively limited good-
quality evaluative evidence on the effectiveness of interventions available in the literature. In particular, we note that most evaluations of interventions only include short-term follow-up and many often look at intermediate rather than final outcomes. For example, evaluations of healthy eating campaigns may only look at changes in attitudes rather than changes in consumption, and we know from wider literature that these are not always aligned. Even when ultimate outcomes such as health consumption are analysed, these are often only in the short term. For example, evaluations of changes in consumption after healthy foods are made more prominent in a canteen setting often only look at the period immediately following the change is made. Whether those healthier behaviours persist over the long term is not clear.
In identifying the case studies, it became 
apparent that there are relatively few large-scale interventions that have been evaluated, and that most of those that have tended to be health interventions, rather than interventions aiming to improve ethical or sustainable consumption practices. What is also largely absent is longitudinal data on consumption. This is problematic since it is difficult to draw effective conclusions on what might change consumption practices based on cross-sectional data. For example, we may have evidence that those with better cooking skills are more likely to eat a diverse (and typically healthier) diet. However, this does not necessarily mean that an educational intervention to improve cooking skills will improve or diversify the consumption practices of individuals, since it may be that the relationship between cooking skills and dietary choice is related to underlying attitudes, preferences or salience. Longitudinal data would help us to better understand how changes, whether personal, societal, economic or due to interventions, causally influence consumption. 
Improving the evidence base through longer-
term follow-up and increased longitudinal data would not just help us to understand whether existing interventions are working or what the trends are. It would also enable us to better design policies that are effective at changing consumption. There also is likely to be scope for learning across contexts and purposes. For example, if we have conclusive evidence on how and when changes in pricing affect consumption of unhealthy products, it is likely that there will be learning from this to support the development of policies aiming to affect the consumption of less sustainable or ethical foods, if desired. It is, however, important to emphasise that conducting longitudinal research should form an ongoing activity alongside implementing interventions to address food consumption. Therefore, interventions with evaluation built in from the beginning can, and should, be implemented alongside investment in longitudinal research. 