WHAT  IS  ART?  113 
pity  for  another,  and  of  self-congratulation  that  it  is  not  I 
who  am  suffering  :  it  is  like  what  we  feel  at  the  sight  of 
an  execution,  or  what  the  Romans  felt  in  their  circuses. 
The  substitution  of  effectfulness  for  JBsthetic  feeling  is 
particularly  noticeable  in  musical  art — that  art  which  by 
its  nature  has  an  immediate  physiological  action  on  the 
nerves.  Instead  of  transmitting  by  means  of  a  melody  the 
feelings  he  has  experienced,  a  composer  of  the  new  school 
accumulates  and  complicates  sounds,  and  by  now  strengthen 
ing,  now  weakening  them,  he  produces  on  the  audience  a 
physiological  effect  of  a  kind  that  can  be  measured  by  an 
apparatus  invented  for  the  purpose.1  And  the  public  mistake 
this  physiological  effect  for  the  effect  of  art. 
As  to  the  fourth  method — that  of  interesting — it  also  is 
frequently  confounded  with  art.  One  often  hears  it  said, 
not  only  of  a  poem,  a  novel,  or  a  picture,  but  even  of  a 
musical  work,  that  it  is  interesting.  AVhat  does  this  mean  1 
To  speak  of  an  interesting  work  of  art  means  either  that  we 
receive  from  a  work  of  art  information  new  to  us,  or  that 
the  work  is  not  fully  intelligible,  and  that  little  by  little, 
and  with  effort,  we  arrive  at  its  meaning,  and  experience  a 
certain  pleasure  in  this  process  of  guessing  it.  In  neither 
case  has  the  interest  anything  in  common  with  artistic  im 
pression.  Art  aims  at  infecting  people  with  feeling  experi 
enced  by  tKe~artist.  "But  the  mental  effort  necessary  to enable  the  spectator,  listener,  or  reader  to  assimilate  the  new 
information  contained  in  the  work,  or  to  guess  the  puzzles 
propounded,  by  distracting  him,  hinders  the  infection. 
And  therefore  the  interestingness  of  a  work  not  only  has 
nothing  to  do  with  its  excellence  as  a  work  of  art,  but 
rather  hinders  than  assists  artistic  impression. 
We  may,  in  a  work  of  art,  meet  with  what  is  poetic,  and 
1  An  apparatus  exists  by  means  of  which  a  very  sensitive  arrow, 
in  dependence  on  the  tension  of  a  muscle  of  the  arm,   will  indicate 
the  physiological  action  of  music  on  the  nerves  and  muscles. 
8 
