154  WHAT  JS  ART? 
\  pleasure  does  the  receiver  obtain,  and  therefore  the  more 
\readily  and  strongly  does  he  join  in  it. 
The  clearness  of  expression  assists  infection,  because  the 
receiver,  who  mingles  in  consciousness  with  the  author,  is 
the  better  satisfied  the  more  clearly  the  feeling  is  trans 
mitted,  which,  as  it  seems  to  him,  he  has  long  known  and 
felt,  and  for  which  he  has  only  now  found  expression. 
But  most  of  all  is  the  degree  of  infectiousness  of  art 
\  increased  by  the  degree  of  sincerity  in  the  artist.  As  soon 
as  the  spectator,  hearer,  or  reader  feels  that  the  artist  is 
infected  by  his  own  production,  and  writes,  sings,  or  plays 
for  himself  and  not  merely  to  act  on  others,  this  mental  con 
dition  of  the  artist  infects  the  receiver ;  and,  contrariwise, 
as  soon  as  the  spectator,  reader,  or  hearer  feels  that  the  author 
is  not  writing,  singing,  or  playing  for  his  own  satisfaction, — 
does  not  himself  feel  what  he  wishes  to  express, — but  is  doing 
it  for  him,  the  receiver,  a  resistance  immediately  springs  up, 
and  the  most  individual  and  the  newest  feelings  and  the 
cleverest  technique  not  only  fail  to  produce  any  infection 
but  actually  repel. 
I  have  mentioned  three  conditions  of  contagiousness  in 
art,  but  they  may  all  be  summed  up  into  one,  the  last, 
sincerity,  i.e.  that  the  artist  should  be  impelled  by  an  inner 
'\  need  to  express  his  feeling.  That  condition  includes  the 
jfirst ;  for  if  the  artist  is  sincere  he  will  express  the  feeling 
'as  he  experienced  it.  And  as  each  man  is  different  from everyone  else,  his  feeling  will  be  individual  for  everyone 
else ;  and  the  more  individual  it  is, — the  more  the  artist 
has  drawn  it  from  the  depths  of  his  nature, — the  more 
sympathetic  and  sincere  will  it  be.  And  this  same  sincerity 
will  impel  the  artist  to  find  a  clear  expression  of  the  feeling 
which  he  wishes  to  transmit. 
Therefore  this  third  condition — sincerity — is  the  most 
important  of  the  three.  It  is  always  complied  with  in 
peasant  art,  and  this  explains  why  such  art  always  acts  so 
