WHA T  IS  ART?  97 
(who  exterminates  rats),  and  who,  for  an  unintelligible 
reason,  takes  a  poetic  child  to  the  sea  and  there  drowns 
him;  or  some  blind  men,  who,  sitting  on  the  seashore,  for 
some  reason  always  repeat  one  and  the  same  thing ;  or  a  bell 
of  some  kind,  which  flies  into  a  lake  and  there  rings. 
And  the  same  is  happening  in  music — in  that  art  which, 
more  than  any  other,  one  would  have  thought,  should  be 
intelligible  to  everybody. 
An  acquaintance  of  yours,  a  musician  of  repute,  sits  down 
to  the  piano  and  plays  you  what  he  says  is  a  new  com 
position  of  his  own,  or  of  one  of  the  new  composers.  You 
hear  the  strange,  loud  sounds,  and  admire  the  gymnastic 
exercises  performed  by  his  fingers ;  and  you  see  that  the 
performer  wishes  to  impress  upon  you  that  the  sounds  he  is 
producing  express  various  poetic  strivings  of  the  soul.  You 
see  his  intention,  but  no  feeling  whatever  is  transmitted  to 
you  except  weariness.  The  execution  lasts  long,  or  at  least 
it  seems  very  long  to  you,  because  you  do  not  receive  any 
clear  impression,  and  involuntarily  you  remember  the  words 
of  Alphonse  Karr,  "  Plus  $a  va  vite,  plus  $a  dure  longtemps" l 
And  it  occurs  to  you  that  perhaps  it  is  all  a  mystification ; 
perhaps  the  performer  is  trying  you — just  throwing  his 
hands  and  fingers  wildly  about  the  key-board  in  the  hope 
that  you  will  fall  into  the  trap  and  praise  him,  and  then 
he  will  laugh  and  confess  that  he  only  wanted  to  see  if 
he  could  hoax  you.  But  when  at  last  the  piece  does 
finish,  and  the  perspiring  and  agitated  musician  rises  from 
the  piano  evidently  anticipating  praise,  you  see  that  it  was 
all  done  in  earnest. 
The  same  thing  takes  place  at  all  the  concerts  with  pieces 
by  Liszt,  Wagner,  Berlioz,  Brahms,  and  (newest  of  all) 
Richard  Strauss,  and  the  numberless  other  composers  of 
the  new  school,  who  unceasingly  produce  opera  after  opera, 
symphony  after  symphony,  piece  after  piece. 
1  The  quicker  it  goes  the  longer  it  lasts. 
7 
