102  WHAT  IS  ART? 
People  say  that  works  of  art  do  not  please  the  people 
becauste  they  are  incapable  of  understanding  them.  But  if 
the  aim  of  works  of  art  is  to  infect  people  with  the  emotion 
the  artist  has  experienced,  how  can  one  talk  about  not 
understanding  1 
A  man  of  the  people  reads  a  book,  sees  a  picture,  hears  a 
play  or  a  symphony,  and  is  touched  by  no  feeling.  He  is 
told  that  this  is  because  he  cannot  understand.  People 
promise  to  let  a  man  see  a  certain  show ;  he  enters  and  sees 
nothing.  He  is  told  that  this  is  because  his  sight  is  not 
prepared  for  this  show.  But  the  man  well  knows  that  he 
sees  quite  well,  and  if  he  does  not  see  what  people  promised 
to  show  him,  he  only  concludes  (as  is  quite  just)  that  those 
who  undertook  to  show  him  the  spectacle  have  not  fulfilled 
their  engagement.  And  it  is  perfectly  just  for  a  man  who 
does  feel  the  influence  of  some  works  of  art  to  come  to  this 
conclusion  concerning  artists  who  do  not,  by  their  works, 
evoke  feeling  in  him.  To  say  that  the  reason  a  man  is  not 
touched  by  my  art  is  because  he  is  still  too  stupid,  besides 
being  very  self-conceited  and  also  rude,  is  to  reverse  the 
roles,  and  for  the  sick  to  send  the  hale  to  bed. 
Voltaire  said  that  "  Tons  les  genres  sont  Ions,  Tiors  le 
genre  ennuyeux " ; 1  but  with  even  more  right  one  may  say 
of  art  that  Tons  les  genres  sons  Ions,  liors  celui  qu'on  ne 
comprend  pas,  or  qui  ne  produit  pas  son  e/et,2  for  of what  value  is  an  article  which  fails  to  do  that  for  which 
it  was  intended? 
Mark  this  above  all :  if  only  it  be  admitted  that  art 
may  be  art  and  yet  be  unintelligible  to  anyone  of  sound 
mind,  there  is  no  reason  why  any  circle  of  perverted  people 
should  not  compose  works  tickling  their  own  perverted 
feelings  and  comprehensible  to  no  one  but  themselves,  and 
1  All  styles  are  good  except  the  wearisome  style. 
2  All  styles  are  good  except  that  which  is  not  understood,  or  which 
fails  to  produce  its  effect. 
