WHAT  IS  ART?  131 
alter  the  sense  of  Wagner's  music  is  because  the  sense  lies in  the  words  and  not  in  the  music, 
The  musical  score  of  Wagner's  later  operas  is  like  what 
the  result  would  be  should  one  of  those  versifiers — of  whom 
there  are  now  many,  with  tongues  so  broken  that  they  can 
write  verses  on  any  theme  to  any  rhymes  in  any  rhythm, 
which  sound  as  if  they  had  a  meaning — conceive  the  idea 
of  illustrating  by  his  verses  some  symphony  or  sonata  of 
Beethoven,  or  some  ballade  of  Chopin,  in  the  following 
manner.  To  the  first  bars,  of  one  character,  he  writes 
verses  corresponding  in  his  opinion  to  those  first  bars. 
Next  come  some  bars  of  a  different  character,  and  he  also 
writes  verses  corresponding  in  his  opinion  to  them,  but  with 
no  internal  connection  with  the  first  verses,  and,  moreover, 
without  rhymes  and  without  rhythm.  Such  a  production, 
without  the  music,  would  be  exactly  parallel  in  poetry  to 
what  Wagner's  operas  are  in  music,  if  heard  without  the words. 
But  Wagner  is  not  only  a  musician,  he  is  also  a  poet, 
or  both  together ;  and  therefore,  to  judge  of  Wagner,  one 
must  know  his  poetry  also — that  same  poetry  which  the 
music  has  to  subserve.  The  chief  poetical  production  of 
Wagner  is  The  Nibduncjs  Ring.  This  work  has  attained 
such  enormous  importance  in  our  time,  and  has  such  influ 
ence  on  all  that  now  professes  to  be  art,  that  it  is  neces 
sary  for  everyone  to-day  to  have  some  idea  of  it.  I  have 
carefully  read  through  the  four  booklets  which  contain  this 
work,  and  have  drawn  up  a  brief  summary  of  it,  which  I 
give  in  Appendix  III.  I  would  strongly  advise  the  reader 
(if  he  has  not  perused  the  poem  itself,  which  would  be 
the  best  thing  to  do)  at  least  to  read  my  account  of  it, 
so  as  to  have  an  idea  of  this  extraordinary  work.  It  is  a 
model  work  of  counterfeit  art,  so  gross  as  to  be  even 
ridiculous. 
But  we  are  told  that  it  is  impossible  to  judge  of  Wagner's 
