WHAT  IS  ART?  151 
comes  up  with  them  and  draws  his  bow.  But  just  then  the 
bird  sounds  its  note,  warning  the  deer  of  their  danger. 
They  escape.  Again  there  is  a  chasej  and  again  the  hunter 
gains  on  them,  catches  them  and  lets  fly  his  arrow.  The 
arrow  strikes  the  young  deer.  Unable  to  run,  the  little  one 
presses  against  its  mother.  The  mother  licks  its  wound. 
The  hunter  draws  another  arrow.  The  audience,  as  the 
eye-witness  describes  them,  are  paralysed  with  suspense ; 
deep  groans  and  even  weeping  is  heard  among  them.  And, 
from  the  mere  description,  I  felt  that  this  was  a  true  work 
of  art. 
What  I  am  saying  will  be  considered  irrational  paradox, 
at  which  one  can  only  be  amazed ;  but  for  all  that  I  must 
say  what  I  think,  namely,  that  people  of  our  circle,  of  whom 
some  compose  verses,  stories,  novels,  operas,  symphonies, 
and  sonatas,  paint  all  kinds  of  pictures  and  make  statues, 
while  others  hear  and  look  at  these  things,  and  again  others 
appraise  and  criticise  it  all,  discuss,  condemn,  triumph,  and 
raise  monuments  to  one  another  generation  after  generation, 
— that  all  these  people,  with  very  few  exceptions,  artists, 
and  public,  and  critics,  have  never  (except  in  childhood  and 
earliest  youth,  before  hearing  any  discussions  on  art),  ex 
perienced  that  simple  feeling  familiar  to  the  plainest  man 
and  even  to  a  child,  that  sense  of  infection  with  another's 
feeling, — compelling  us  to  joy  in  another's  gladness,  to 
sorrow  at  another's  grief,  and  to  mingle  souls  with  another, 
— which  is  the  very  essence  of  art.  And  therefore  these 
people  not  only  cannot  distinguish  true  works  of  art  from 
counterfeits,  but  continually  mistake  for  real  art  the  worst 
and  most  artificial,  while  they  do  not  even  perceive  works 
of  real  art,  because  the  counterfeits  are  always  more  ornate, 
while  true  art  is  modest. 
