74  WHAT  IS  ART? 
u  new  feeling  (however  insignificant)  into  the  current  of 
human  life.  This  explains  why  children  and  youths  are 
so  strongly  impressed  by  those  works  of  art  which  first 
transmit  to  them  feelings  they  had  not  before  experienced. 
The  same  powerful  impression  is  made  on  people  by  feelings 
which  are  quite  new,  and  have  never  before  been  expressed 
by  man.  And  it  is  the  source  from  which  such  feelings 
iiow  of  which  the  art  of  the  upper  classes  has  deprived 
itself  by  estimating  feelings,  not  in  conformity  with  religious 
perception,  but  according  to  the  degree  of  enjoyment  they 
afford.  There  is  nothing  older  and  more  hackneyed  than 
enjoyment,  and  there  is  nothing  fresher  than  the  feelings 
springing  from  the  religious  consciousness  of  each  age.  It 
could  not  be  otherwise :  man's  enjoyment  has  limits  estab 
lished  by  his  nature,  but  the  movement  forward  of 
humanity,  that  which  is  voiced  by  religious  perception,  has 
no  limits.  At  every  forward  step  taken  by  humanity — 
and  such  steps  are  taken  in  consequence  of  the  greater  and 
greater  elucidation  of  religious  perception — men  experience 
new  and  fresh  feelings.  And  therefore  only  on  the  basis 
of  religious  perception  (which  shows  the  highest  level  of 
life-comprehension  reached  by  the  men  of  a  certain  period) 
can  fresh  emotion,  never  before  felt  by  man,  arise.  From 
kthe  religious  perception  of  the  ancient  Greeks  flowed  the 
really  new,  important,  and  endlessly  varied  feelings  ex 
pressed  by  Homer  and  the  tragic  writers.  It  was  the  same 
among  the  Jews,  who  attained  the  religious  conception  of  a 
single  God, — from  that  perception  flowed  all  those  new  and 
important  emotions  expressed  by  the  prophets.  It  was  the 
same  for  the  poets  of  the  Middle  Ages,  who,  if  they  believed 
in  a  heavenly  hierarchy,  believed  also  in  the  Catholic 
commune ;  and  it  is  the  same  for  a  man  of  to-day  who  has 
grasped  the  religious  conception  of  true  Christianity — the 
brotherhood  of  man. 
The    variety   of    fresh    feelings    flowing    from    religious 
