134  WHAT  IS  ART? 
is  dissatisfied  with  it.  From  a  ten-page  conversation  (by  the 
libretto),  lasting  half  an  hour  and  conducted  with  the  same 
strange  openings  of  the  mouth  and  chantings,  it  appears 
that  Siegfried's  mother  gave  birth  to  him  in  the  wood,  and 
that  concerning  his  father  all  that  is  known  is  that  he  had 
a  sword  which  was  broken,  the  pieces  of  which  are  in  Mime's 
possession,  and  that  Siegfried  does  not  know  fear  and  wishes 
to  go  out  of  the  wood.  Mime,  however,  does  not  want  to 
let  him  go.  During  the  conversation  the  music  never  omits, 
at  the  mention  of  father,  sword,  etc.,  to  sound  the  motive  of 
these  people  and  things.  After  these  conversations  fresh 
sounds  are  heard — those  of  the  god  Wotan — and  a  wanderer 
appears.  This  wanderer  is  the  god  Wotan.  Also  dressed 
up  in  a  wig,  and  also  in  tights,  this  god  Wotan,  standing 
in  a  stupid  pose  with  a  spear,  thinks  proper  to  recount 
what  Mime  must  have  known  before,  but  what  it  is 
necessary  to  tell  the  audience.  He  does  not  tell  it  simply, 
but  in  the  form  of  riddles  which  he  orders  himself  to  guess, 
staking  his  head  (one  does  not  know  why)  that  he  will  guess 
right.  Moreover,  whenever  the  wanderer  strikes  his  spear 
on  the  ground,  fire  comes  out  of  the  ground,  and  in  the 
orchestra  the  sounds  of  spear  and  of  fire  are  heard.  The 
orchestra  accompanies  the  conversation,  and  the  motive  of  the 
people  and  things  spoken  of  are  always  artfully  intermingled. 
Besides  this  the  music  expresses  feelings  in  the  most  naive 
manner :  the  terrible  by  sounds  in  the  bass,  the  frivolous  by 
rapid  touches  in  the  treble,  etc. 
The  riddles  have  no  meaning  except  to  tell  the  audience 
what  the  nibelungs  are,  what  the  giants  are,  what  the 
gods  are,  and  what  has  happened  before.  This  conver 
sation  also  is  chanted  with  strangely  opened  mouths  and 
continues  for  eight  libretto  pages,  and  correspondingly 
long  on  the  stage.  After  this  the  wanderer  departs,  and 
Siegfried  returns  and  talks  with  Mime  for  thirteen  pages  more. 
There  is  not  a  single  melody  the  whole  of  this  time,  but 
