148  WHAT  IS  ART? 
But,  for  all  that,  the  song  of  the  peasant  women  was  real 
art,  transmitting  a  definite  and  strong  feeling;  while  the 
101st  sonata  of  Beethoven  was  only  an  unsuccessful  attempt 
at  art,  containing  no  definite  feeling  and  therefore  not 
infectious. 
For  my  work  on  art  I  have  this  winter  read  diligently, 
though  with  great  effort,  the  celebrated  novels  and  stories, 
praised  by  all  Europe,  written  by  Zola,  Bourget,  Huysmans, 
and  Kipling.  At  the  same  time  I  chanced  on  a  story  in  a 
child's  magazine,  and  by  a  quite  unknown  writer,  which  told 
of  the  Easter  preparations  in  a  poor  widow's  family.  Th* 
story  tells  how  the  mother  managed  with  difficulty  to  obtain 
some  wheat-flour,  which  she  poured  on  the  table  ready  to 
knead.  She  then  went  out  to  procure  some  yeast,  telling 
the  children  not  to  leave  the  hut,  and  to  take  care  of  the 
flour.  When  the  mother  had  gone,  some  other  children 
ran  shouting  near  the  window,  calling  those  in  the  hut  to 
come  to  play.  The  children  forgot  their  mother's  warning, 
ran  into  the  street,  and  were  soon  engrossed  in  the  game. 
The  mother,  on  her  return  with  the  yeast,  finds  a  hen 
on  the  table  throwing  the  last  of  the  flour  to  her  chickens, 
who  were  busily  picking  it  out  of  the  dust  of  the  earthen 
floor.  The  mother,  in  despair,  scolds  the  children,  who  cry 
bitterly.  And  the  mother  begins  to  feel  pity  for  them — but 
the  white  flour  has  all  gone.  So  to  mend  matters  she 
decides  to  make  the  Easter  cake  with  sifted  rye-flour, 
brushing  it  over  with  white  of  egg  and  surrounding  it 
with  eggs.  "Rye-bread  which  we  bake  is  akin  to  any 
cake,"  says  the  mother,  using  a  rhyming  proverb  to  console the  children  for  not  having  an  Easter  cake  made  with  white 
flour.  And  the  children,  quickly  passing  from  despair  to 
rapture,  repeat  the  proverb  and  await  the  Easter  cake  more 
merrily  even  than  before. 
Well !  the  reading  of  the  novels  and  stories  by  Zola, 
Bourget,  Huysmans,  Kipling,  and  others,  handling  the  most 
