102  WHAT  IS  ART? 
or  of  a  Japanese  touch  me,  though  in  a  lesser  degree  than 
they  touch  a  Kirghiz  or  a  Japanese.  I  am  also  touched  by 
Japanese  painting,  Indian  architecture,  and  Arabian  stories. 
If  I  am  but  little  touched  by  a  Japanese  song  and  a  Chinese 
novel,  it  is  not  that  I  do  not  understand  these  productions, 
but  that  I  know  and  am  accustomed  to  higher  works  of 
art.  It  is  not  because  their  art  is  above  me.  Grea.t  works 
./..,.  of  art  are  only  great  because  they  are  accessible  and  compre 
hensible  to  everyone.  The  story  of  Joseph,  translated  into 
the  Chinese  language,  touches  a  Chinese.  The  story  of  Sakya 
Muni  touches  us.  And  there  are,  and  must  bo,  buildings, 
pictures,  statues,  and  music  of  similar  power.  So  that,  if  art 
fails  to  move  men,  it  cannot  be  said  that  this  is  due  to  the 
spectators'  or  hearers'  lack  of  understanding ;  but  the  con 
clusion  to  be  drawn  may,  and  should  be,  that  such  art  is 
either  bad  art,  or  is  not  art  at  all. 
Art  is  differentiated  from  activity  of  the  understanding, 
which  demands  preparation  and  a  certain  sequence  of  know 
ledge  (so  that  one  cannot  learn  trigonometry  before  knowing 
geometry),  by  the  fact  that  it  acts  on  people  independently  of 
their  state  of  development  and  education,  that  the  charm  of 
a  picture,  of  sounds,  or  of  forms,  infects  any  man  whatever 
his  plane  of  development. 
The  business  of  art  lies  just  in  this — to  make  that  under 
stood  and  felt  which,  in  the  form  of  an  argument,  might  be 
incomprehensible  and  inaccessible.  Usually  it  seems  to  the 
recipient  of  a  truly  artistic  impression  that  he  knew  the  thing 
before  but  had  been  unable  to  express  it. 
And  such  has  always  been  the  nature  of  good,  supreme  art ; 
the  Iliad,  the  Odyssey,  the  stories  of  Isaac,  Jacob,  and  Joseph, 
the  Hebrew  prophets,  the  psalms,  the  Gospel  parables,  the 
story  of  Sakya  Muni,  and  the  hymns  of  the  Vedas :  all  transmit 
very  elevated  feelings,  and  are  nevertheless  quite  compre 
hensible  now  to  us,  educated  or  uneducated,  as  they  were  com 
prehensible  to  the  men  of  those  times,  long  ago,  who  were 
