150  WHAT  IS  ART? 
Next  in  the  same  book  of  academy  pictures  comes  a  picture 
by  Langley,  showing  a  stray  beggar  boy,  who  has  evidently 
been  called  in  by  a  woman  who  has  taken  pity  on  him. 
The  boy,  pitifully  drawing  his  bare  feet  under  the  bench, 
is  eating ;  the  woman  is  looking  on,  probably  considering 
whether  he  will  not  want  some  more  ;  and  a  girl  of  about 
seven,  leaning  on  her  arm,  is  carefully  and  seriously  looking 
on,  not  taking  her  eyes  from  the  hungry  boy,  and  evidently 
understanding  for  the  first  time  what  poverty  is,  and  what 
inequality  among  people  is,  and  asking  herself  why  she  has 
everything  provided  for  her  while  this  boy  goes  bare-foot 
and  hungry?  She  feels  sorry  and  yet  pleased.  And  she 
loves  both  the  boy  and  goodness.  .  .  .  And  one  feels  that 
the  artist  loved  this  girl,  and  that  she  too  loves.  And  this 
picture,  by  an  artist  who,  I  think,  is  not  very  widely  known, 
is  an  admirable  and  true  work  of  art. 
I  remember  seeing  a  performance  of  Hamlet  by  Rossi. 
Both  the  tragedy  itself  and  the  performer  who  took  the 
chief  part  are  considered  by  our  critics  to  represent  the 
climax  of  supreme  dramatic  art.  And  yet,  both  from  the 
subject-matter  of  the  drama  and  from  the  performance,  I 
experienced  all  the  time  that  peculiar  suffering  which  is 
caused  by  false  imitations  of  works  of  art.  And  I  lately 
read  of  a  theatrical  performance  among  the  savage  tribe  the 
Voguls.  A  spectator  describes  the  play.  A  big  Vogul  and  a 
a  little  one,  both  dressed  in  reindeer  skins,  represent  a  rein 
deer-doe  and  its  young.  A  third  Yogul,  with  a  bow,  repre 
sents  a  huntsman  on  snow-shoes,  and  a  fourth  imitates  with 
his  voice  a  bird  that  warns  the  reindeer  of  their  danger.  The 
play  is  that  the  huntsman  follows  the  track  that  the  doe 
with  its  young  one  has  travelled.  The  deer  run  off  the 
scene  and  again  reappear.  (Such  performances  take  place 
in  a  small  tent-house.)  The  huntsman  gains  more  and  more 
on  the  pursued.  The  little  deer  is  tired,  and  presses  against 
its  mother.  The  doe  stops  to  draw  breath.  The  hunter 
