112  WHAT  IS  ART? 
Neither  does  the  third  method  of  imitating  art — by 
the  use  of  what  is  striking  or  effectful — coincide  with 
real  art  any  better  than  the  two  former  methods,  for 
in  effectfulness — the  effects  of  novelty,  of  the  unexpected, 
of  contrasts,  of  the  horrible — there  is  no  transmission  of 
feeling,  but  only  an  action  on  the  nerves.  If  an  artist  were 
to  paint  a  bloody  wound  admirably,  the  sight  of  the  wound 
would  strike  me,  but  it  would  not  be  art.  One  prolonged 
note  on  a  powerful  organ  will  produce  a  striking  impression, 
will  often  even  cause  tears,  but  there  is  no  music  in  it, 
because  no  feeling  is  transmitted.  Yet  such  physiological 
\  effects  are  constantly  mistaken  for  art  by  people  of  our 
;  circle,  and  this  not  only  in  music,  but  also  in  poetry, 
painting,  and  the  drama.  It  is  said  that  art  has  become 
refined.  On  the  contrary,  thanks  to  the  pursuit  of  elfectful- 
ness,  it  has  become  very  coarse.  A  new  piece  is  brought 
out  and  accepted  all  over  Europe,  such,  for  instance,  as 
Hannele,  in  which  play  the  author  wishes  to  transmit  to  the 
spectators  pity  for  a  persecuted  girl.  To  evoke  this  feeling  in 
the  audience  by  means  of  art,  the  author  should  either  make 
one  of  the  characters  express  this  pity  in  such  a  way  as  to 
infect  everyone,  or  he  should  describe  the  girl's  feelings  cor 
rectly.  But  he  cannot,  or  will  not,  do  this,  and  chooses 
another  wray,  more  complicated  in  stage  management  but 
easier  for  the  author.  He  makes  the  girl  die  on  the  stage ; 
and,  still  further  to  increase  the  physiological  effect  on  the 
spectators,  he  extinguishes  the  lights  in  the  theatre,  leaving 
the  audience  in  the  dark,  and  to  the  sound  of  dismal  music 
he  shows  how  the  girl  is  pursued  and  beaten  by  her  drunken 
father.  The  girl  shrinks  —  screams  —  groans  —  and  falls. 
Angels  appear  and  carry  her  away.  And  the  audience, 
•experiencing  some  excitement  while  this  is  going  on,  are 
fully  convinced  that  this  is  true  aesthetic  feeling.  But 
there  is  nothing  aesthetic  in  such  excitement,  for  there  is  no 
infecting  of  man  by  man,  but  only  a  mingled  feeling  of 
