INTRODUCTION.  vii 
Again,  the  newspapers  last  year  printed  proposals  to 
construct  a  Wagner  Opera  House,  to  cost,  if  I  recollect 
rightly,  ;£  100,000 — about  as  much  as  a  hundred  labourers 
may  earn  by  fifteen  or  twenty  years'  hard  work.  The 
writers  thought  it  would  be  a  good  thing  if  such  an  Opera 
House  were  erected  and  endowed.  But  I  had  a  talk  lately 
with  a  man  who,  till  his  health  failed  him,  had  worked  as  a 
builder  in  London.  He  told  me  that  when  he  was  younger 
he  had  been  very  fond  of  theatre-going,  but,  later,  when  he 
thought  things  over  and  considered  that  in  almost  every 
number  of  his  weekly  paper  he  read  of  cases  of  people 
whose  death  was  hastened  by  lack  of  good  food,  he  felt  it 
was  not  right  that  so  much  labour  should  be  spent  on 
theatres. 
In  reply  to  this  view  it  is  urged  that  food  for  the  mind  is 
as  important  as  food  for  the  body.  The  labouring  classes 
work  to  produce  food  and  necessaries  for  themselves  and 
for  the  cultured,  while  some  of  the  cultured  class  produce 
plays  and  operas.  It  is  a  division  of  labour.  But  this 
again  invites  the  rejoinder  that,  sure  enough,  the  labourers 
produce  food  for  themselves  and  also  food  that  the  cultured 
class  accept  and  consume,  but  that  the  artists  seem  too 
often  to  produce  their  spiritual  food  for  the  cultured  only 
— at  any  rate  that  a  singularly  small  share  seems  to  reach 
the  country  labourers  who  work  to  supply  the  bodily 
food!  Even  were  the  "division  of  labour"  shown  to  be 
a  fair  one,  the  "  division  of  products  "  seems  remarkably 
one-sided. 
Once  again:  how  is  it  that  often  when  a  new  work  is 
produced,  neither  the  critics,  the  artists,  the  publishers,  nor 
the  public,  seem  to  know  whether  it  is  valuable  or  worth 
less?  Some  of  the  most  famous  books  in  English  litera 
ture  could  hardly  find  a  publisher,  or  were  savagely  derided 
by  leading  critics;  while  other  works  once  acclaimed  as 
masterpieces  are  now  laughed  at  or  utterly  forgotten.  A 
