62  WHAT  IS  ART? 
But,  notwithstanding  all  this,"  they  could  not  quite  dismiss the  notion  that  beauty  and  goodness  coincide. 
And  consequently,  in  the  language  of  that  period,  a 
compound  word  (/caAo-icdya&'a,  beauty-goodness),  came  into use  to  express  that  notion. 
Evidently  the  Greek  sages  began  to  draw  near  to  that 
perception  of  goodness  which  is  expressed  in  Buddhism  and 
in  Christianity,  and  they  got  entangled  in  denning  the 
relation  between  goodness  and  beauty.  Plato's  reasonings 
about  beauty  and  goodness  are  full  of  contradictions.  And 
it  was  just  this  confusion  of  ideas  that  those  Europeans  of 
a  later  age,  who  had  lost  all  faith,  tried  to  elevate  into  a 
law.  They  tried  to  prove  that  this  union  of  beauty  and 
goodness  is  inherent  in  the  very  essence  of  things ; 
that  beauty  and  goodness  must  coincide;  and  that 
the  word  and  conception  KaX.o-KayaOta  (which  had  a 
meaning  for  Greeks  but  has  none  at  all  for  Christians) 
represents  the  highest  ideal  of  humanity.  On  this  mis 
understanding  the  new  science  of  aesthetics  was  built  up. 
And,  to  justify  its  existence,  the  teachings  of  the  ancients 
on  art  were  so  twisted  as  to  make  it  appear  that  this 
invented  science  of  aesthetics  had  existed  among  the  Greeks. 
In  reality,  the  reasoning  of  the  ancients  on  art  was  quite 
unlike  ours.  As  Benard,  in  his  book  on  the  aesthetics  of 
Aristotle,  quite  justly  remarks  :  "  Pour  qui  veut  y  regarderde 
pre.<,  la  theorie  du  beau  et  celle  de  I'art  sont  tout  a  fait  separees dans  Aristote,  comme  elles  le  sont  dans  Platon  et  chez  tons 
leurs  successeurs  "  (L'esthetique  d'Aristote  et  de  ses  successeurs, 
Paris,  1889,  p.  28).1  And  indeed  the  reasoning  of  the 
ancients  on  art  not  only  does  not  confirm  our  science  of 
aesthetics,  but  rather  contradicts  its  doctrine  of  beauty.  But 
nevertheless  all  the  aesthetic  guides,  from  Schasler  to  Knight, 
1  Any  one  examining  closely  may  see  that  the  theory  of  beauty  and 
that  of  art  are  quite  separated  in  Aristotle  as  they  are  in  Plato  and  in 
all  their  successors. 
