82  WHAT  IS  ART? 
voila  le  rdve.  C'est  le  parfait  usage  de  ce  mystere  qui 
constitue  le  symbole :  evoquer  petit  a  petit  un  objet  pour 
montrer  un  etat  d'dme,  ou,  inversement,  choisir  un  objet  et 
en  ddgager  un  etat  d'dme,  par  une  serie  de  dlchiffrements. 
.  .  .  Si  un  etre  d'une  intelligence  moyenne,  et  d'une 
preparation  litteraire  insuffisante,  ouvre  par  hasard  un  livre 
ainsi  fait  et  pretend  en  jouir,  il  y  a  malentendu,  il  faut 
remettre  les  choses  a  leur  place.  II  doit  y  avoir  toujours 
tfnigme  en  poesie,  et  c'est  le  but  de  la  literature,  il  n'y  en 
a  pas  d'autre, — d" evoquer  les  objets. — "Enquete  sur  I' evolution 
litteraire,"  Jules  Huret,  pp.  60,  61.1 
Thus  is  obscurity  elevated  into  a  dogma  among  the  new 
poets.  As  the  French  critic  Doumic  (who  has  not  yet 
accepted  the  dogma)  quite  correctly  says  : — 
11 11  serait  temps  aussi  d'enfinir  avec  cettefameuse  ltheorie 
de  I'obscurite'  que  la  nouvelle  ecole  a  elevee,  en  effet,  d  la 
hauteur  d'un  dogme." — Les  Jeunes,  par  Ren6  Doumic.2 
But  it  is  not  French  writers  only  who  think  thus.     The 
1  I  think  there  should  be  nothing  but  allusions.     The  contemplation 
of  objects,  the  flying  image  of  reveries  evoked  by  them,  are  the  song. 
The  Parnassians  state  the  thing  completely,  and  show  it,  and  thereby 
lack  mystery  ;  they  deprive  the  mind  of  that  delicious  joy  of  imagining 
that  it  creates.     To  name  an  object  is  to  take  three-quarters  from  the 
enjoyment  of  the  poem,  which  consists  in  the  happiness  of  guessing  little 
by  little :  to  suggest,  that  is  the  dream.     It  is  the  perfect  use  of  this 
mystery  that  constitutes  the  symbol :   little  by  little,  to  evoke  an 
object  in  order  to  show  a  state  of  the  soul ;  or  inversely,  to  choose  an 
object,  and  from  it  to  disengage  a  state  of  the  soul  by  a  series  of 
decipherings. 
...  If  a  being  of  mediocre  intelligence  and  insufficient  literary 
preparation  chance  to  open  a  book  made  in  this  way  and  pretends  to 
enjoy  it,  there  is  a  misunderstanding — things  must  be  returned  to 
their  places.  There  should  always  be  an  enigma  in  poetry,  and  the 
aim  of  literature — it  has  no  other — is  to  evoke  objects. 
2  It   were   time  also   to  have  done  with   this  famous    "theory  of 
obscurity,"  which  the  new  school  have  practically  raised  to  the  height of  a  dogma. 
