n6  WHAT  IS  ART? 
characters  so  that  there  should  not  be  any  long  conversa 
tions,  but  as  much  bustle  and  movement  on  the  stage  as 
possible.  If  the  writer  is  able  to  do  this,  he  may  produce 
dramatic  works  one  after  another  without  stopping,  selecting 
his  subjects  from  the  reports  of  the  law  courts,  or  from 
the  latest  society  topic,  such  as  hypnotism,  heredity,  etc., 
or  from  deep  antiquity,  or  even  from  the  realms  of  fancy. 
In  the  sphere  of  painting  and  sculpture  it  is  still  easier 
for  the  talented  man  to  produce  imitations  of  art.  He 
need  only  learn  to  draw,  paint,  and  model — especially  naked 
bodies.  Thus  equipped  he  can  continue  to  paint  pictures, 
or  model  statues,  one  after  another,  choosing  subjects 
according  to  his  bent — mythological,  or  religious,  or  fan 
tastic,  or  symbolical ;  or  he  may  depict  what  is  written  about 
in  the  papers — a  coronation,  a  strike,  the  Turko-Grecian 
war,  famine  scenes ;  or,  commonest  of  all,  he  may  just  copy 
anything  he  thinks  beautiful — from  naked  women  to  copper basins. 
For  the  production  of  musical  art  the  talented  man  needs 
still  less  of  what  constitutes  the  essence  of  art,  i.e.  feeling 
wherewith  to  infect  others;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  he 
requires  more  physical,  gymnastic  labour  than  for  any  other 
art,  unless  it  be  dancing.  To  produce  works  of  musical  art, 
he  must  first  learn  to  move  his  fingers  on  some  instrument 
as  rapidly  as  those  who  have  reached  the  highest  perfection; 
next  he  must  know  how  in  former  times  polyphonic  music 
was  written,  must  study  what  are  called  counterpoint  and 
fugue ;  and  furthermore,  he  must  learn  orchestration,  i.e.  how 
to  utilise  the  effects  of  the  instruments.  But  once  he  has 
learned  all  this,  the  composer  may  unceasingly  produce  one 
work  after  another;  whether  programme  -  music,  opera,  or 
song  (devising  sounds  more  or  less  corresponding  to  the 
words),  or  chamber  music,  i.e.  he  may  take  another  man's themes  and  work  them  up  into  definite  forms  by  means  of 
counterpoint  and  fugue ;  or,  what  is  commonest  of  all,  he 
