WHAT  IS  ART?  135 
merely  intertwinings  of  the  leit-moUve  of  the  people  and 
things  mentioned.  The  conversation  tells  that  Mime  wishes 
to  teach  Siegfried  fear,  and  that  Siegfried  does  not  know 
what  fear  is.  Having  finished  this  conversation,  Siegfried 
seizes  one  of  the  pieces  of  what  is  meant  to  represent  the 
broken  sword,  saws  it  up,  puts  it  on  what  is  meant  to 
represent  the  forge,  melts  it,  and  then  forges  it  and  sings : 
Heiho!  heiho!  heiho!  Ho!  ho!  Aha!  oho!  aha!  Heiaho! 
heiaho  !  heiaho  !  Ho  !  ho  !  Hahei !  hoho  !  hahei !  and  Act 
I.  finishes. 
As  far  as  the  question  I  had  come  to  the  theatre  to 
decide  was  concerned,  my  mind  was  fully  made  up,  as 
surely  as  on  the  question  of  the  merits  of  my  lady 
acquaintance's  novel  when  she  read  me  the  scene  between the  loose-haired  maiden  in  the  white  dress  and  the  hero 
with  two  white  dogs  and  a  hat  with  $  feather  a  la  Guil- 
laume  Tell. 
From  an  author  who  could  compose  such  spurious  scenes, 
outraging  all  aesthetic  feeling,  as  those  which  I  had  wit 
nessed,  there  was  nothing  to  be  hoped;  it  may  safely  be 
decided  that  all  that  such  an  author  can  write  will  be  bad, 
because  he  evidently  does  not  know  what  a  true  work  of 
art  is.  I  wished  to  leave,  but  the  friends  I  was  with 
asked  me  to  remain,  declaring  that  one  could  not  form 
an  opinion  by  that  one  act,  and  that  the  second  would  be 
better.  So  I  stopped  for  the  second  act. 
Act  II.,  night.  Afterwards  dawn.  In  general  the  whole 
piece  is  crammed  with  lights,  clouds,  moonlight,  darkness, 
magic  fires,  thunder,  etc. 
The  scene  represents  a  wood,  and  in  the  wood  there  is  a 
cave.  At  the  entrance  of  the  cave  sits  a  third  actor  in 
tights,  representing  another  gnome.  It  dawns.  Enter  the 
god  Wotan,  again  with  a  spear,  and  again  in  the  guise  of  a 
wanderer.  Again  his  sounds,  together  with  fresh  sounds  ot 
the  deepest  bass  that  can  be  produced.  These  latter  indicate 
