io8  WHAT  IS  ART? 
changes  on  those  memories  she  could  produce  an  artistic 
impression.  But  an  artistic  impression,  i.e.  infection,  is 
only  received  when  an  author  has,  in  the  manner  ...peculiar 
to  himself,  experienced  the  feeling  which  he  transmits,  and 
not  when  he  passes  on  another  man's  feeling  previously 
transmitted  to  him.  Such  poetry  from  poetry  cannot  infect 
people,  it  can  only  simulate  a  work  of  art,  and  even  that 
only  to  people  of  perverted  aesthetic  taste.  The  lady  in 
question  being  very  stupid  and  devoid  of  talent,  it  was  at 
once  apparent  how  the  case  stood ;  but  when  such  borrowing 
is  resorted  to  by  people  who  are  erudite  and  talented  and  have 
cultivated  the  technique  of  their  art,  we  get  those  borrow 
ings  from  the  Greek,  the  antique,  the  Christian  or  mytho 
logical  world  which  have  become  so  numerous,  and  which, 
particularly  in  our  day,  continue  to  increase  and  multiply, 
and  are  accepted  by  the  public  as  works  of  art,  if  only  the 
borrowings  are  well  mounted  by  means  of  the  technique  of 
the  particular  art  to  which  they  belong. 
As  a  characteristic  example  of  such  counterfeits  of  art 
in  the  realm  of  poetry,  take  Eostand's  Princesse  Lointaine, 
in  which  there  is  not  a  spark  of  art,  but  which  seems  very 
poetical  to  many  people,  and  probably  also  to  its  author. 
The  second  method  of  imparting  a  semblance  of  art  is 
that  which  I  have  called  imitating.  The  essence  of  this 
method  consists  in  supplying  details  accompanying  the  thing 
described  or  depicted.  In  literary  art  this  method  consists 
in  describing,  in  the  minutest  details,  the  external  appear 
ance,  the  faces,  the  clothes,  the  gestures,  the  tones,  and  the 
habitations  of  the  characters  represented,  with  all  the  occur J 
rences  met  with  in  life.  For  instance,  in  novels  and  stories, 
when  one  of  the  characters  speaks  we  are  told  in  what  voice 
he  spoke,  and  what  he  was  doing  at  the  time.  And  the 
things  said  are  not  given  so  that  they  should  have  as  much 
sense  as  possible,  but,  as  they  are  in  life,  disconnectedly, 
and  with  interruptions  and  omissions.  In  dramatic  art, 
