130  WHAT  IS  ART? 
same  aim :  to  produce  a  mental  condition,  and  the  condi 
tions  produced  by  lyrical  poetry  and  by  music  can,  more  or 
less,  coincide.  But  even  in  these  conjunctions  the  centre  of 
gravity  always  lies  in  one  of  the  two  productions,  so  that 
it  is  one  of  them  that  produces  the  artistic  impression  while 
the  other  remains  unregarded.  And  still  less  is  it  possible 
for  such  union  to  exist  between  epic  or  dramatic  poetry  and 
music. 
Moreover,  one  of  the  chief  conditions  of  artistic  creation 
is  the  complete  freedom  of  the  artist  from  every  kind  of 
preconceived  demand.  And  the  necessity  of  adjusting  his 
musical  work  to  a  work  from  another  realm  of  art  is  a  pre 
conceived  demand  of  such  a  kind  as  to  destroy  all  possibility 
of  creative  power ;  and  therefore  works  of  this  kind,  adjusted 
to  one  another,  are,  and  must  be,  as  has  always  happened, 
not  works  of  art  but  only  imitations  of  art,  like  the  music 
of  a  melodrama,  signatures  to  pictures,  illustrations,  and 
librettos  to  operas. 
And  such  are  Wagner's  productions.  And  a  confirma 
tion  of  this  is  to  be  seen  in  the  fact  that  Wagner's  new 
music  lacks  the  chief  characteristic  of  every  true  work 
of  art,  namely,  such  entirety  and  completeness  that  the 
smallest  alteration  in  its  form  would  disturb  the  meaning 
of  the  whole  work.  In  a  true  work  of  art — poem,  drama, 
picture,  song,  or  symphony — it  is  impossible  to  extract  one  line, 
one  scene,  one  figure,  or  one  bar  from  its  place  and  put  it  in 
another,  without  infringing  the  significance  of  the  whole 
work;  just  as  it  is  impossible,  without  infringing  the  life 
an  organic  being,  to  extract  an  organ  from  one  place  and 
insert  it  in  another.  But  in  the  music  of  Wagner's  last 
period,  with  the  exception  of  certain  parts  of  little  importance 
which  have  an  independent  musical  meaning,  it  is  possible 
to  make  all  kinds  of  transpositions,  putting  what  was  in 
front  behind,  and  vice  versa,  without  altering  the  musical 
sense.  And  the  reason  why  these  transpositions  do  not 
