INTRODUCTION.  xv 
The  object  of  this  activity  is  to  transmit  to  others  feeling 
the  artist  has  experienced.  Such  feelings — intentionally 
re-evoked  and  successfully  transmitted  to  others — are  the 
subject-matter  of  all  art.  By  certain  external  signs — move 
ments,  lines,  colours,  sounds,  or  arrangements  of  words — an 
artist  infects  other  people  so  that  they  share  his  feelings. 
Thus  "art  is  a  means  of  union  among  men,  joining  them 
together  in  the  same  feelings." 
Chapters  II.  to  V.  contain  an  examination  of  various 
theories  which  have  taken  art  to  be  something  other  than 
this,  and  step  by  step  we  are  brought  to  the  conclusion 
that  art  is  this,  and  nothing  but  this. 
Having  got  our  definition  of  art,  let  us  first  consider 
art  independently  of  its  subject-matter,  i.e.,  without  asking 
whether  the  feelings  transmitted  are  good,  bad,  or  in 
different.  Without  adequate  expression  there  is  no  art, 
for  there  is  no  infection,  no  transference  to  others  of  the 
author's  feeling.  The  test  of  art  is  infection.  If  an 
author  has  moved  you  so  that  you  feel  as  he  felt,  if  you 
are  so  united  to  him  in  feeling  that  it  seems  to  you  that 
he  has  expressed  just  what  you  have  long  wished  U>  express, 
the  work  that  has  so  infected  you  is  a  work  of  ai*t. 
In  this  sense,  it  is  true  that  art  has  nothing  to  do 
with  morality;  for  the  test  lies  in  the  ''infection/'  and  not 
in  any  consideration  of  the  goodness  or  badness  of  the 
emotions  conveyed.  Thus  the  test  of  art  is  an  internal 
one.  The  activity  of  art  is  based  on  the  fact  that  a 
man,  receiving,  through  his  sense  of  hearing'  or  sight, 
another  man's  expression  of  feeling,  is  capable  of  experi 
encing  the  emotion  that  moved  the  man  who  expressed  it. 
We  all  share  the  same  common  human  nature,  and  in 
this  sense,  at  least,  are  sons  of  one  Father.  To  take  the 
simplest  example:  a  man  laughs,  and  another,  who  hears, 
becomes  merry;  or  a  man  weeps,  and  another,  who  hears, 
feels  sorrow.  Note  in  passing  that  it  does  not  amount  to 
