WHAT  IS  ART 'f  75 
perception  is  endless,  and  they  are  all  new,  for  religious 
perception  is  nothing  else  than  the  first  indication  of  that 
"which  is  coming  into  existence,  viz.  the  new  relation  of man  to  the  world  around  him.  But  the  feelings  flowing 
from  the  desire  for  enjoyment  are,  on  the  contrary,  not 
only  limited,  but  were  long  ago  experienced  and  expressed. 
And  therefore  the  lack  of  belief  of  the  upper  classes  of 
Europe  has  left  them  with  an  art  fed  on  the  poorest 
subject-matter. 
The  impoverishment  of  the  subject-matter  of  upper-class 
art  was  further  increased  by  the  fact  that,  ceasing  to  be 
religious,  it  ceased  also  to  be  popular,  and  this  again 
diminished  the  range  of  feelings  which  it  transmitted.  For 
the  range  of  feelings  experienced  by  the  powerful  and  the 
rich,  who  have  no  experience  of  labour  for  the  support  of 
life,  is  far  poorer,  more  limited,  and  more  insignificant  than 
the  range  of  feelings  natural  to  working  people. 
People  of  our  circle,  sestheticians,  usually  think  and  say 
just  the  contrary  of  this.  I  remember  how  Gontchareff,  the 
author,  a  very  clever  and  educated  man  but  a  thorough  towns 
man  and  an  sesthetician,  said  to  me  that  after  Tourgenieff's 
Memoirs  of  a  Sportsman  there  was  nothing  left  to  write  about 
in  peasant  life.  It  was  all  used  up.  The  life  of  working 
people  seemed  to  him  so  simple  that  Tourgenieff's  peasant 
stories  had  used  up  all  there  was  to  describe.  The  life  of 
our  wealthy  people,  with  their  love  affairs  and  dissatisfac 
tion  with  themselves,  seemed  to  him  full  of  inexhaustible 
subject-matter.  One  hero  kissed  his  lady  on  her  palm, 
another  on  her  elbow,  and  a  third  somewhere  else.  One 
man  is  discontented  through  idleness,  and  another  because 
people  don't  love  him.  And  Gontchareff  thought  that  in 
this  sphere  there  is  no  end  of  variety.  And  this  opinion 
—that  the  life  of  working  people  is  poor  in  subject-matter, 
but  that  our  life,  the  life  of  the  idle,  is  full  of  interest- 
is  shared  by  very  many  people  in  our  society.  The  life  of 
