140  WHAT  IS  ART? 
to  the  text.  The  rolling  waves  of  the  Ehine — now  how 
is  that  to  be  expressed  in  music  ?  An  evil  gnome  appears 
— how  is  the  music  to  express  an  evil  gnome? — and  how 
is  it  to  express  the  sensuality  of  this  gnome?  How  will 
bravery,  fire,  or  apples  be  expressed  in  music?  How  are 
the  leit-motive  of  the  people  speaking  to  be  interwoven 
with  the  leit-motive  of  the  people  and  objects  about  whom 
they  speak?  Besides,  the  music  has  a  further  interest. 
It  diverges  from  all  formerly  accepted  laws,  and  most 
unexpected  and  totally  new  modulations  crop  up  (as  is 
not  only  possible  but  even  easy  in  music  having  no  inner 
laAv  of  its  being) ;  the  dissonances  are  new,  and  are  allowed 
in  a  new  way — and  this,  too,  is  interesting. 
And  it  is  this  poeticality,  imitativeness,  effectfulness,  and 
interestingness  which,  thanks  to  the  peculiarities  of  Wagner's 
talent  and  to  the  advantageous  position  in  which  he  was 
placed,  are  in  these  productions  carried  to  the  highest  pitch 
of  perfection,  that  so  act  on  the  spectator,  hypnotising  him 
as  one  would  be  hypnotised  who  should  listen  for  several 
consecutive  hours  to  the  ravings  of  a  maniac  pronounced 
with  great  oratorical  power. 
People  say,  "You  cannot  judge  without  having  seen 
Wagner  performed  at  Bayreuth :  in  the  dark,  where  the 
orchestra  is  out  of  sight  concealed  under  the  stage,  and 
where  the  performance  is  brought  to  the  highest  perfec 
tion."  And  this  just  proves  that  we  have  here  no  question 
of  art,  but  one  of  hypnotism.  It  is  just  what  the  spiritu 
alists  say.  To  convince  you  of  the  reality  of  their  appari 
tions,  they  usually  say,  "  You  cannot  judge ;  you  must  try 
it,  be  present  at  several  seances,"  i.e.  come  and  sit  silent 
in  the  dark  for  hours  together  in  the  same  room  with 
semi-sane  people,  and  repeat  this  some  ten  times  over,  and 
you  shall  see  all  that  we  see. 
Yes,  naturally !  Only  place  yourself  in  such  conditions, 
and  you  may  see  what  you  will.  But  this  can  be  still  more 
