WHAT  IS  ART?  133 
which  are  not  continued  and  do  not  get  finished.  From 
the  libretto  one  could  learn  that  the  gnome  is  telling 
himself  about  a  ring  which  a  giant  had  obtained,  and 
which  the  gnome  wishes  to  procure  through  Siegfried's 
aid,  while  Siegfried  wants  a  good  sword,  on  the  forging 
of  which  the  gnome  is  occupied.  After  this  conversation 
or  singing  to  himself  has  gone  on  rather  a  long  time, 
other  sounds  are  heard  in  the  orchestra,  also  like  something 
beginning  and  not  finishing,  and  another  actor  appears, 
with  a  horn  slung  over  his  shoulder,  and  accompanied  by 
a  man  running  on  all  fours  dressed  up  as  a  bear,  whom 
he  sets  at  the  smith-gnome.  The  latter  runs  away  with 
out  unbending  the  knees  of  his  trico-covered  legs.  This 
actor  with  the  horn  represented  the  hero,  Siegfried.  The 
sounds  which  were  emitted  in  the  orchestra  on  the  entrance 
of  this  actor  were  intended  to  represent  Siegfried's  character 
and  are  called  Siegfried's  leit-motiv.  And  these  sounds  are 
repeated  each  time  Siegfried  appears.  There  is  one  fixed 
combination  of  sounds,  or  leit-motiv,  for  each  character, 
and  this  leit-motiv  is  repeated  every  time  the  person  whom 
it  represents  appears ;  and  when  anyone  is  mentioned  the 
motiv  is  heard  which  relates  to  that  person.  Moreover, 
each  article  also  lias  its  own  leit-motiv  or  chord.  There 
is  a  motiv  of  the  ring,  a  motiv  of  the  helmet,  a  motiv  of 
the  apple,  a  motiv  of  fire,  spear,  sword,  water,  etc. ;  and  as 
soon  as  the  ring,  helmet,  or  apple  is  mentioned,  the  motiv 
or  chord  of  the  ring,  helmet,  or  apple  is  heard.  The  actor 
with  the  horn  opens  his  mouth  as  unnaturally  as  the  gnome, 
and  long  continues  in  a  chanting  voice  to  shout  some  words, 
and  in  a  similar  chant  Mime  (that  is  the  gnome's  name) 
answers  something  or  other  to  him.  The  meaning  of  this 
conversation  can  only  be  discovered  from  the  libretto;  and  it  is 
that  Siegfried  was  brought  up  by  the  gnome,  and  therefore, 
for  some  reason,  hates  him  and  always  wishes  to  kill  him. 
The  gnome  has  forged  a  sword  for  Siegfried,  but  Siegfried 
