WHAT  IS  ART?  155 
powerfully;  but  it  is  a  condition  almost  entirely  absent 
from  our  upper-class  art,  which  is  continually  produced  by 
artists  actuated  by  personal  aims  of  covetousness  or  vanity. 
Such  are  the  three  conditions  which  divide  art  from  its 
counterfeits,  and  which  also  decide  the  quality  of  every 
w.ork  of  art  apart  from  its  subject-matter. 
The  absence  of  any  one  of  these  conditions  excludes  a 
work  from  the  category  of  art  and  relegates  it  to  that  of 
art's  counterfeits.  If  the  work  does  not  transmit  the 
artist's  peculiarity  of  feeling,  and  is  therefore  not  individual, 
if  it  is  unintelligibly  expressed,  or  if  it  has  not  proceeded 
from  the  author's  inner  need  for  expression — it  is  not  a 
work  of  art.  If  all  these  conditions  are  present,  even  in 
the  smallest  degree,  then  the  work,  even  if  a  weak  one,  is 
yet  a  work  of  art. 
The  presence  in  various  degrees  of  these  three  conditions  : 
individuality,  clearness,  and  sincerity,  decides  the  merit  of 
a  work  of  art,  as  art,  apart  from  subject-matter.  All  works 
of  art  take  rank  of  merit  according  to  the  degree  in  which 
they  fulfil  the  first,  the  second,  and  the  third  of  these  con 
ditions.  In  one  the  individuality  of  the  feeling  transmitted 
may  predominate ;  in  another,  clearness  of  expression ;  in  a 
third,  sincerity '}  while  a  fourth  may  have  sincerity  and 
individuality  but  be  deficient  in  clearness  ;  a  fifth,  individ 
uality  and  clearness,  but  less  sincerity ;  and  so  forth,  in  all 
possible  degrees  and  combinations. 
Thus  is  art  divided  from  not  art,  and  thus  is  the  quality 
of  art,  as  art,  decided,  independently  of  its  subject-matter, 
i.e.  apart  from  whether  the  feelings  it  transmits  are  good  or 
bad. 
But  how  are  we  to  define  good  and  bad  art  with  reference 
to  its  subject-matter  ? 
