122  WHAT  IS  ART? 
Every  false  work  extolled  by  the  critics  serves  as  a 
door  through  which  the  hypocrites  of  art  at  once 
crowd  in. 
It  is  solely  due  to  the  critics,  who  in  our  times  still  praise 
rude,  savage,  and,  for  us,  often  meaningless  works  of  the 
ancient  Greeks :  Sophocles,  Euripides,  ^Eschylus,  and  espe 
cially  Aristophanes;  or,  of  modern  writers,  Dante,  Tasso, 
Milton,  Shakespear;  in  painting,  all  of  Raphael,  all  of 
Michael  Angelo,  including  his  absurd  "Last  Judgment";  in 
music,  the  whole  of  Bach,  and  the  whole  of  Beethoven, 
including  his  last  period, — thanks  only  to  them,  have  the 
Ibsens,  Maeterlincks,  Verlaines,  Mallarmes,  Puvis  de  Cha- 
vannes,  Klingers,  Bocklins,  Stucks,  Schneiders ;  in  music, 
the  Wagners,  Liszts,  Berliozes,  Brahmses,  and  Richard 
Strausses,  etc.,  and  all  that  immense  mass  of  good-for- 
nothing  imitators  of  these  imitators,  become  possible  in 
our  day. 
As  a  good  illustration  of  the  harmful  influence  of  criticism, 
take  its  relation  to  Beethoven.  Among  his  innumerable 
hasty  productions  written  to  order,  there  are,  notwithstand 
ing  their  artificiality  of  form,  works  of  true  art.  But  he 
grows  deaf,  cannot  hear,  and  begins  to  write  invented, 
unfinished  works,  which  are  consequently  often  meaningless 
and  musically  unintelligible.  I  know  that  musicians  can 
imagine  sounds  vividly  enough,  and  can  almost  hear  what 
they  read,  but  imaginary  sounds  can  never  replace  real  ones, 
and  every  composer  must  hear  his  production  in  order  to 
perfect  it.  Beethoven,  however,  could  not  hear,  could  not 
perfect  his  work,  and  consequently  published  productions 
which  are.  artistic  ravings.  But  criticism,  having  once 
acknowledged  him  to  be  a  great  composer,  seizes  on  just 
these  abnormal  works  with  special  gusto,  and  searches  for 
extraordinary  beauties  in  them.  And,  to  justify  its  lauda 
tions  (perverting  the  very  meaning  of  musical  art),  it 
attributed  to  music  the  property  of  describing  what  it  cannot 
