114  WHAT  IS  ART? 
realistic,  and  striking,  and  interesting,  but  these  things  cannot 
replace  the  essential  of  art — feeling  experienced  by  the  artist. 
Latterly,  in  upper-class  art,  most  of  the  objects  given  out  as 
being  works  of  art  are  of  the  kind  which  only  resemble  art, 
and  are  devoid  of  its  essential  quality — feeling  experienced 
by  the  artist.  And,  for  the  diversion  of  the  rich,  such  objects 
are  continually  being  produced  in  enormous  quantities  by 
the  artisans  of  art. 
Many  conditions  must  be  fulfilled  to  enable  a  man  to 
produce  a  real  work  of  art.  It  is  necessary  that  he  should 
stand  on  the  level  of  the  highest  life-conception  of  his 
time,  that  he  should  experience  feeling  and  have  the  desire 
and  capacity  to  transmit  it,  and  that  he  should,  moreover, 
have  a  talent  for  some  one  of  the  forms  of  art.  It  is  very 
seldom  that  all  these  conditions  necessary  to  the  production 
of  true  art  are  combined.  But  in  order — aided  by  the 
customary  methods  of  borrowing,  imitating,  introducing 
effects,  and  interesting — unceasingly  to  produce  counterfeits 
of  art  which  pass  for  art  in  our  society  and  are  well  paid 
for,  it  is  only  necessary  to  have  a  talent  for  some  branch  of 
art ;  and  this  is  very  often  to  be  met  with.  By  talent  I 
mean  ability :  in  literary  art,  the  ability  to  express  one's 
thoughts  and  impressions  easily  and  to  notice  and  remember 
characteristic  details ;  in  the  depictive  arts,  to  distinguish 
and  remember  lines,  forms,  and  colours ;  in  music,  to 
distinguish  the  intervals,  and  to  remember  and  transmit 
the  sequence  of  sounds.  And  a  man,  in  our  times,  if  only 
he  possesses  such  a  talent  and  selects  some  specialty,  may, 
after  learning  the  methods  of  counterfeiting  used  in  his 
branch  of  art, — if  he  has  patience  and  if  his  aesthetic  feeling 
(which  would  render  such  productions  revolting  to  him)  be 
atrophied, — unceasingly,  till  the  end  of  his  life,  turn  out 
works  which  will  pass  for  art  in  our  society. 
To  produce  such  counterfeits,  definite  rules  or  recipes 
exist  in  each  branch  of  art.  So  that  the  talented  man, 
