WHAT  IS  ART?  149 
harrowing  subjects,  did  not  touch  me  for  one  moment,  and 
I  was  provoked  with  the  authors  all  the  while,  as  one  is 
provoked  with  a  man  who  considers  you  so  naive  that  he 
does  not  even  conceal  the  trick  by  which  he  intends  to  take 
you  in.  From  the  first  lines  you  see  the  intention  with 
which  the  book  is  written,  and  the  details  all  become  super 
fluous,  and  one  feels  dull.  Above  all,  one  knows  that  the 
author  had  no  other  feeling  all  the  time  than  a  desire  to 
write  a  story  or  a  novel,  and  so  one  receives  110  artistic  im 
pression.  On  the  other  hand,  I  could  not  tear  myself  away 
from  the  unknown  author's  tale  of  the  children  and  the 
chickens,  because  I  was  at  once  infected  by  the  feeling  which 
the  author  had  evidently  experienced,  re-evoked  in  himself, and  transmitted. 
Vasnetsoff  is  one  of  our  Russian  painters.  He  has  painted 
ecclesiastical  pictures  in  Kieff  Cathedral,  and  everyone 
praises  him  as  the  founder  of  some  new,  elevated  kind  of 
Christian  art.  He  worked  at  those  pictures  for  ten  years, 
was  paid  tens  of  thousands  of  roubles  for  them,  and  they  are 
all  simply  bad  imitations  of  imitations  of  imitations,  destitute 
of  any  spark  of  feeling.  And  this  same  Vasnetsoff  drew  a 
picture  for  Tourgenieff s  story  "  The  Quail  "  (in  which  it  is 
told  how,  in  his  son's  presence,  a  father  killed  a  quail  and felt  pity  for  it),  showing  the  boy  asleep  with  pouting  upper 
lip,  and  above  him,  as  a  dream,  the  quail.  And  this  picture 
is  a  true  work  of  art. 
In  the  English  Academy  of  1897  two  pictures  were 
exhibited  together;  one  of  which,  by  J.  C.  Dolman,  was  the 
temptation  of  St.  Anthony.  The  Saint  is  on  his  knees  praying. 
Behind  him  stands  a  naked  woman  and  animals  of  some 
kind.  It  is  apparent  that  the  naked  woman  pleased  the 
artist  very  much,  but  that  Anthony  did  not  concern  him  at 
all ;  and  that,  so  far  from  the  temptation  being  terrible  to 
him  (the  artist)  it  is  highly  agreeable.  And  therefore  if 
there  be  any  art  in  this  picture,  it  is  very  nacty  and  false. 
