INTRODUCTION.  xi 
philosophy;  when  I  had  done  with  it,  I  had  grasped  the 
main  solution  of  the  problem  so  clearly  that — though  I 
waded  through  nearly  all  that  the  critics  and  reviewers  had 
to  say  about  the  book — I  never  again  became  perplexed 
upon  the  central  issues. 
Tolstoy  was  indeed  peculiarly  qualified  for  the  task  he 
has  accomplished.  It  was  after  many  years  of  work  as  a 
writer  of  fiction,  and  when  he  was  already  standing  in  the 
very  foremost  rank  of  European  novelists,  that  he  found 
himself  compelled  to  face,  in  deadly  earnest,  the  deepest 
problems  of  human  life.  He  not  only  could  not  go  on 
writing  books,  but  he  felt  he  could  not  live,  unless  he 
found  clear  guidance,  so  that  he  might  walk  sure-footedly 
and  know  the  purpose  and  meaning  of  his  life.  Not  as  a 
mere  question  of  speculative  curiosity,  but  as  a  matter  of 
vital  necessity,  he  devoted  years  to  re-discover  the  truths 
which  underlie  all  religion. 
To  fit  him  for  this  task  he  possessed  great  knowledge  of 
men  and  books,  a  wide  experience  of  life,  a  knowledge  of 
languages,  and  a  freedom  from  bondage  to  any  authority 
but  that  of  reason  and  conscience.  He  was  pinned  to 
no  Thirty-nine  Articles,  and  was  in  receipt  of  no  retaining 
fee  which  he  was  not  prepared  to  sacrifice.  Another  gift, 
rare  among  men  of  his  position,  was  his  wonderful  sincerity 
and  (due,  I  think,  to  that  sincerity)  an  amazing  power  of 
looking  at  the  phenomena  of  our  complex  and  artificial  life 
with  the  eyes  of  a  little  child;  going  straight  to  the  real, 
obvious  facts  of  the  case,  and  brushing  aside  the  sophistries, 
the  conventionalities,  and  the  "authorities"  by  which  they are  obscured. 
He  commenced  the  task  when  he  was  about  fifty  years 
of  age,  and  since  then  (i.e.,  during  the  last  twenty  years)  he 
has  produced  nine  philosophical  or  scientific  works  of  first- 
rate  importance,  besides  a  great  many  stories  and  short 
articles. 
