J44  WHAT  IS  ART? 
those  novels,  stories,  dramas,  comedies,  pictures,  sculptures, 
symphonies,  operas,  operettas,  ballets,  etc.,  which  profess  to 
be  works  A  art — scarcely  one  in  a  hundred  thousand  pro- 
deeds  frdKm  emotion  felt  by  its  author,  all  the  rest  being 
v  'b^  mamKctured  counterfeits  of  art  in  which  borrowing, imitating,  effects,  and  interestingness  replace  the  con 
tagion  of  feeling.  That  the  proportion  of  real  productions 
of  art  is  to  the  counterfeits  as  one  to  some  hundreds  of 
thousands  or  even  more,  may  be  seen  by  the  following 
calculation.  I  have  read  somewhere  that  the  artist  painters 
in  Paris  alone  number  30,000;  there  will  probably  be  as 
many  in  England,  as  many  in  Germany,  and  as  many  in 
Russia,  Italy,  and  the  smaller  states  combined.  So  that  in 
all  there  will  be  in  Europe,  say,  120,000  painters;  and  there 
are  probably  as  many  musicians  and  as  many  literary  artists. 
If  these  360,000  individuals  produce  three  works  a  year  each 
(and  many  of  them  produce  ten  or  more),  then  each  year 
yields  over  a  million  so-called  works  of  art.  How  many,  then, 
must  have  been  produced  in  the  last  ten  years,  and  how 
many  in  the  whole  time  since  upper-class  art  broke  off  from 
the  art  of  the  whole  people  1  Evidently  millions.  Yet  who 
of  all  the  connoisseurs  of  art  has  received  impressions  from 
all  these  pseudo  works  of  art  1  Not  to  mention  all  the  labour 
ing  classes  who  have  no  conception  of  these  productions, 
even  people  of  the  upper  classes  cannot  know  one  in  a 
thousand  of  them  all,  and  cannot  remember  those  they 
have  known.  These  works  all  appear  under  the  guise  of 
art,  produce  no  impression  on  anyone  (except  when  they 
serve  as  pastimes  for  the  idle  crowd  of  rich  people),  and 
vanish  utterly. 
In  reply  to  this  it  is  usually  said  that  without  this 
enormous  number  of  unsuccessful  attempts  we  should  not 
have  the  real  works  of  art.  But  such  reasoning  is  as  though 
a  baker,  in  reply  to  a  reproach  that  his  bread  was  bad,  were 
to  say  that  if  it  were  not  for  the  hundreds  of  spoiled  loaves 
