WHAT  IS  ART?  153 
to  those  whose  feeling  for  art  is  neither  perverted  nor 
atrophied,  and  it  clearly  distinguishes  the  feeling  produced 
by  art  from  all  other  feelings. 
The  chief  peculiarity  of  this  feeling  is  that  the  receiver  of 
a  true  artistic  impression  is  so  united  to  the  artist  that  he/ 
feels  as  if  the  work  were  his  own  and  not  someone  else's; — > 
as  if  what  it  expresses  were  just  what  he  had  long  been' 
wishing  to  express.  A  real  work  of  art  destroys,  in  the' consciousness  of  the  receiver,  the  separation  between  him 
self  and  the  artist,  nor  that  alone,  but  also  between  himself 
and  all  whose  minds  receive  this  work  of  art.  In  this 
freeing  of  our  personality  from  its  separation  and  isolation,  |  j 
in  this  uniting  of  it  with  others,  lies  the  chief  characteristic  \ , 
and  the  great  attractive  force  of  art. 
If  a  man  is  infected  by  the  author's  condition  of  soul,  if   , he  feels  this  emotion  and  this  union  with  others,  then  the 
object  \vhich  has  effected  this  is  art;   but  if   there  be  no 
such  infection,  if  there  be  not  this  union  with  the  author  ^ 
and  with  others  who  are  moved  by  the  same  work — then  it    ; 
is  not  art.     And  not  only  is  infection  a  sure  sign  of  art, 
but  the  degree  of  infectiousness  is  also  the  sole  measure  of 
excellence  in  art. 
The  stronger  the  infection  the  better  is  the  art,  as  art, 
speaking  now  apart  from  its  subject-matter,  i.e.  not  con 
sidering  the  quality  of  the  feelings  it  transmits. 
And  the  degree  of  the  infectiousness  of  art  depends  on 
three  conditions  : — 
(1)  On  the  greater  or  lesser  individuality  of  the  feeling 
transmitted ;    (2)  on  the   greater   or   lesser   clearness    with  : 
which  the  feeling  is  transmitted;  (3)  on  the  sincerity  of  the 
artist,  i.e.  on  the  greater  or  lesser  force  with  which  the  artist 
himself  feels  the  emotion  he  transmits. 
The  more  individual  the  feeling  transmitted  the  more 
strongly  does  it  act  on  the  receiver ;  the  more  individual 
the  state  of  soul  into  which  he  is  transferred  the  more 
