WHAT  IS  ART?  123 
describe.  And  imitators  appear — an  innumerable  host  of 
imitators  of  these  abnormal  attempts  at  artistic  productions 
which  Beethoven  wrote  when  he  was  deaf. 
Then  Wagner  appears,  who  at  first  in  critical  articles 
praises  just  Beethoven's  last  period,  and  connects  this  music 
with  Schopenhauer's  mystical  theory  that  music  is  the  ex 
pression  of  Will — not  of  separate  manifestations  of  will 
objectivised  on  various  planes,  but  of  its  very  essence — 
which  is  in  itself  as  absurd  as  this  music  of  Beethoven. 
And  afterwards  he  composes  music  of  his  own  on  this 
theory,  in  conjunction  with  another  still  more  erroneous 
system  of  the  union  of  all  the  arts.  After  Wagner  yet 
new  imitators  appear,  diverging  yet  further  from  art : 
Brahms,  Richard  Strauss,  and  others. 
Such  are  the  results  of  criticism.  But  the  third  condition 
of  the  perversion  of  art,  namely,  art  schools,  is  almost  more 
harmful  still. 
.  As  soon  as  art  became,  not  art  for  the  whole  people  but 
for  a  rich  class,  it  became  a  profession ;  as  soon  as  it  became 
a  profession,  methods  were  devised  to  teach  it ;  people 
who  chose  this  profession  of  art  began  to  learn  these 
methods,  and  thus  professional  schools  sprang  up :  classes 
of  rhetoric  or  literature  in  the  public  schools,  academics 
for  painting,  conservatoires  for  music,  schools  for  dramatic 
art. 
In  these  schools  art  is  taught !  But  art  is  the  transmission 
to  others  of  a  special  feeling  experienced  by  the  artist. 
How  can  this  be  taught  in  schools  1 
No  school  can  evoke  feeling  in  a  man,  and  still  less  can 
it  teach  him  IIOAV  to  manifest  it  in  the  one  particular  manner 
natural  to  him  alone.  But  the  essence  of  art  lies  in  these 
things. 
The  one  thing  these  schools  can  teach  is  how  to  transmit 
feelings  experienced  by  other  artists  in  the  way  those  other 
artists  transmitted  them.  And  this  is  just  what  the 
