96  WHAT  IS  ART? 
much  one  stands  back  from,  or  draws  near  to,  the  picture. 
From  there  I  went  to  see  the  Symbolists.  I  looked  at  them 
long  without  asking  anyone  for  an  explanation,  trying  to 
guess  the  meaning  ;  but  it  is  beyond  human  comprehension. 
One  of  the  first  things  to  catch  my  eye  was  a  wooden  liaut- 
reUef,  wretchedly  executed,  representing  a  woman  (naked) 
who  with  both  hands  is  squeezing  from  her  two  breasts 
streams  of  blood.  The  blood  flows  down,  becoming  lilac  in 
colour.  Her  hair  first  descends  and  then  rises  again  and 
turns  into  trees.  The  figure  is  all  coloured  yellow,  and  the 
hair  is  brown. 
"Next — a  picture  :  a  yellow  sea,  on  which  swims  something 
which  is  neither  a  ship  nor  a  heart;  on  the  horizon  is  a 
profile  with  a  halo  and  yellow  hair,  which  changes  into  a  sea, 
in  which  it  is  lost.  Some  of  the  painters  lay  on  their 
colours  so  thickly  that  the  effect  is  something  between 
painting  and  sculpture.  A  third  exhibit  was  even  less 
comprehensible  :  a  man's  profile  ;  before  him  a  flame  and 
black  stripes — leeches,  as  I  was  afterwards  told.  At  last  I 
asked  a  gentleman  who  was  there  what  it  meant,  and  he 
explained  to  me  that  the  liaut-relief  was  a  symbol,  and  that 
it  represented  'La  Terre.'  The  heart  swimming  in  a  yellow 
sea  was  '  Illusion  perdue,'  and  the  gentleman  with  the  leeches 
was  '  Le  Mai.'  There  were  also  some  Impressionist  pictures  : 
elementary  profiles,  holding  some  sort  of  flowers  in  their 
hands  :  in  monotone,  out  of  drawing,  and  either  quite  blurred 
or  else  marked  out  with  wide  black  outlines." 
This  was  in  1894;  the  same  tendency  is  now  even  more 
strongly  defined,  and  we  have  Bocklin,  Stuck,  Klinger, 
Sasha  Schneider,  and  others. 
The  same  thing  is  taking  place  in  the  drama.  The  play- 
writers  give  us  an  architect  who,  for  some  reason,  has  not 
'fulfilled  his  former  high  intentions,  and  who  consequently climbs  on  to  the  roof  of  a  house  he  has  erected  and  tumbles 
down  head  foremost;  or  an  incomprehensible  old  woman 
