WHAT  IS  ART?  109 
besides  such  imitation  of  real  speech,  this  method  consists 
in  having  all  the  accessories  and  all  the  people  just  like 
those  in  real  life.  In  painting  this  method  assimilates 
painting  to  photography  and  destroys  the  difference  between 
them.  And,  strange  to  say,  this  method  is  used  also  in 
music  :  music  tries  to  imitate  not  only  by  its  rhythm  but 
also  by  its  very  sounds,  the  sounds  which  in  real  life  accom 
pany  the  thing  it  wishes  to  represent. 
The  third  method  is  by  action,  often  purely  physical,  on 
the  outer  senses.  Work  of  this  kind  is  said  to  be  "  striking," 
"  effect-ful."  In  all  arts  these  effects  consist  chiefly  in  con 
trasts  ;  in  bringing  together  the  terrible  and  the  tender,  the 
beautiful  and  the  hideous,  the  loud  and  the  soft,  darkness 
and  light,  the  most  ordinary  and  the  most  extraordinary.  In 
verbal  art,  besides  effects  of  contrast,  there  are  also  effects 
consisting  in  the  description  of  things  that  have  never  before 
been  described.  These  are  usually  pornographic  details 
evoking  sexual  desire,  or  details  of  suffering  and  death 
evoking  feelings  of  horror,  as,  for  instance,  when  describing 
a  murder,  to  give  a  detailed  medical  account  of  the  lacerated 
tissues,  of  the  swellings,  of  the  smell,  quantity  and  appear 
ance  of  the  blood.  It  is  the  same  in  painting :  besides  all 
kinds  of  other  contrasts,  one  is  coming  into  vogue  which 
consists  in  giving  careful  finish  to  one  object  and  being 
careless  about  all  the  rest.  The  chief  and  usual  effects  in 
painting  are  effects  of  light  and  the  depiction  of  the  horrible. 
In  the  drama,  the  most  common  effects,  besides  contrasts,  are 
tempests,  thunder,  moonlight,  scenes  at  sea  or  by  the  sea 
shore,  changes  of  costume,  exposure  of  the  female  body, 
madness,  murders,  and  death  generally :  the  dying  person 
exhibiting  in  detail  all  the  phases  of  agony.  In  music  the 
most  usual  effects  are  a  crescendo,  passing  from  the  softest 
and  simplest  sounds  to  the  loudest  and  most  complex  crash 
of  the  full  orchestra ;  a  repetition  of  the  same  sounds 
arpeggio  in  all  the  octaves  and  on  various  instruments; 
