viii  INTRODUCTION. 
play  which  nobody  now  reads  was  once  passed  off  as  a 
newly-discovered  masterpiece  of  Shakespear's,  and  was 
produced  at  a  leading  London  theatre.  Are  the  critics 
playing  blind-man's  buff?  Are  they  relying  on  each  other? 
Is  each  following  his  own  whim  and  fancy?  Or  do  they 
possess  a  criterion  which  they  never  reveal  to  those  outside 
the  profession  ? 
Such  are  a  few  of  the  many  problems  relating  to  art  which 
present  themselves  to  us  all,  and  it  is  the  purpose  of  this 
book  to  enable  us  to  reach  such  a  comprehension  of  art, 
and  of  the  position  art  should  occupy  in  our  lives,  as  will 
enable  us  to  answer  such  questions. 
The  task  is  one  of  enormous  difficulty.  Under  the  cloak 
of  "art,"  so  much  selfish  amusement  and  self-indulgence 
tries  to  justify  itself,  and  so  many  mercenary  interests  are 
concerned  in  preventing  the  light  from  shining  in  upon  the 
subject,  that  the  clamour  raised  by  this  book  can  only  be 
compared  to  that  raised  by  the  silversmiths  of  Ephesus 
when  they  shouted,  "  Great  is  Diana  of  the  Ephesians !  " 
for  about  the  space  of  two  hours. 
Elaborate  theories  blocked  the  path  with  subtle  sophis 
tries  or  ponderous  pseudo-erudition.  Merely  to  master 
these,  and  expose  them,  was  by  itself  a  colossal  labour, 
but  necessary  in  order  to  clear  the  road  for  a  statement  of 
any  fresh  view.  To  have  accomplished  this  work  of  exposure 
in  a  few  chapters  is  a  wonderful  achievement.  To  have 
done  it  without  making  the  book  intolerably  dry  is  more 
wonderful  still.  In  Chapter  III.  (where  a  rapid  summary  of 
some  sixty  aesthetic  writers  is  given)  even  Tolstoy's  powers 
fail  to  make  the  subject  interesting,  except  to  the  specialist, 
and  he  has  to  plead  with  his  readers  "not  to  be  overcome 
by  dulness,  but  to  read  these  extracts  through." 
Among  the  writers  mentioned,  English  readers  miss  the 
names  of  John  Ruskin  and  William  Morris,  especially  as  so 
much  that  Tolstoy  says,  is  in  accord  with  their  views, 
