WHAT  IS  ART?  143 
quickly  attained  by  getting  drunk  or  smoking  opium.  It 
is  the  same  when  listening  to  an  opera  of  Wagner's.  Sit 
in  the  dark  for  four  days  in  company  with  people  who 
are  not  quite  normal,  and,  through  the  auditory  nerves, 
subject  your  brain  to  the  strongest  action  of  the  sounds 
best .  adapted  to  excite  it,  and  you  will  no  doubt  be  reduced 
to  an  abnormal  condition  and  be  enchanted  by  absurdities. 
But  to  attain  this  end  you  do  not  even  need  four  days ; 
the  five  hours  during  which  one  "day"  is  enacted,  as  in 
Moscow,  are  quite  enough.  Nor  are  five  hours  needed ; 
even  one  hour  is  enough  for  people  who  have  no  clear 
conception  of  what  art  should  be,  and  who  have  come  to 
the  conclusion  in  advance  that  what  they  are  going  to  see 
is  excellent,  and  that  indifference  or  dissatisfaction  with 
this  work  will  serve  as  a  proof  of  their  inferiority  and 
lack  of  culture. 
I  observed  the  audience  present  at  this  representation. 
The  people  who  led  the  whole  audience  and  gave  the  tone  to 
it  were  those  who  had  previously  been  hypnotised,  and  who- 
again  succumbed  to  the  hypnotic  influence  to  which  they 
were  accustomed.  These  hypnotised  people,  being  in  an 
abnormal  condition,  were  perfectly  enraptured.  Moreover, 
all  the  art  critics,  who  lack  the  capacity  to  be  infected  by 
art  and  therefore  always  especially  prize  works  like  Wagner's 
opera  where  it  is  all  an  affair  of  the  intellect,  also,  with 
much  profundity,  expressed  their  approval  of  a  work  afford 
ing  such  ample  material  for  ratiocination.  And  following 
these  two  groups  went  that  large  city  crowd  (indifferent  to> 
art,  with  their  capacity  to  be  infected  by  it  perverted  and 
partly  atrophied),  headed  by  the  princes,  millionaires,  and 
art  patrons,  who,  like  sorry  harriers,  keep  close  to  those  who 
most  loudly  and  decidedly  express  their  opinion. 
"  Oh  yes,  certainly!  What  poetry!  Marvellous  !  Especi 
ally  the  birds  !  "  "  Yes,  yes  !  I  am  quite  vanquished  !  " 
exclaim  these  people,  repeating  in  various  tones  what  they 
