124  WHAT  IS  ART? 
professional  schools  do  teach ;  and  such  instruction  not  only 
does  not  assist  the  spread  of  true  art,  but,  on  the  contrary, 
by  diffusing  counterfeits  of  art,  does  more  than  anything 
else  to  deprive  people  of  the  capacity  to  understand 
true  art. 
In  literary  art  people  are  taught  how,  without  having 
anything  they  wish  to  say,  to  write  a  many-paged  com 
position  on  a  theme  about  which  .they  have  never  thought, 
and,  moreover,  to  write  it  so  that  it  should  resemble  the 
work  of  an  author  admitted  to  be  celebrated.  This  is  taught 
in  schools. 
In  painting  the  chief  training  consists  in  learning  to  draw 
and  paint  from  copies  and  models,  the  naked  body  chiefly 
(the  very  thing  that  is  never  seen,  and  which  a  man 
occupied  with  real  art  hardly  ever  has  to  depict),  and  to 
draw  and  paint  as  former  masters  drew  and  painted.  The 
composition  of  pictures  is  taught  by  giving  out  themes  similar 
to  those  which  have  been  treated  by  former  acknowledged 
celebrities. 
So  also  in  dramatic  schools,  the  pupils  are  taught  to 
recite  monologues  just  as  tragedians,  considered  celebrated, 
declaimed  them. 
It  is  the  same  in  music.  The  whole  theory  of  music  is 
nothing  but  a  disconnected  repetition  of  those  methods 
which  the  acknowledged:  masters  of  composition  made 
use  of. 
I  have  elsewhere  quoted  the  profound  remark  of  the 
Russian  artist  Bruloff  on  art,  but  I  cannot  here  refrain  from 
repeating  it,  because  nothing  better  illustrates  what  can 
and  what  can  not  be  taught  in  the  schools.  Once  when 
correcting  a  pupil's  study,  Bruloff  just  touched  it  in  a  few 
places,  and  the  poor  dead  study  immediately  became  ani 
mated.  "  Why,  you  only  touched  it  a  wee  bit,  and  it  is  quite 
another  thing  ! "  said  one  of  the  pupils.  "  Art  begins  where 
the  wee  bit  begins,"  replied  Bruloff,  indicating  by  these 
