INTRODUCTION,  xiii 
And  all  this  time  the  problems  of  Art:  What  is  Art? 
What  importance  is  due  to  it  ?  How  is  it  related  to  the 
rest  of  life  ? — were  working  in  his  mind.  He  was  a 
great  artist,  often  upbraided  for  having  abandoned  his 
art.  He,  of  all  men,  was  bound  to  clear  his  thoughts  on 
this  perplexing  subject,  and  to  express  them.  His  whole 
philosophy  of  life — the  "religious  perception"  to  which, with  such  tremendous  labour  and  effort,  he  had  attained, 
forbade  him  to  detach  art  from  life,  and  place  it  in  a  water 
tight  compartment  where  it  should  not  act  on  life  or  be 
re-acted  upon  by  life. 
Life  to  him  is  rational.  It  has  a  clear  aim  and  purpose, 
discernible  by  the  aid  of  reason  and  conscience.  And  no 
human  activity  can  be  fully  understood  or  rightly  appre 
ciated  until  the  central  purpose  of  life  is  perceived. 
You  cannot  piece  together  a  puzzle-map  as  long  as  you 
keep  one  bit  in  a  wrong  place,  but  when  the  pieces  all  fit 
together,  then  you  have  a  demonstration  that  they  are  all  in 
their  right  places.  Tolstoy  used  that  simile  years  ago 
when  explaining  how  the  comprehension  of  the  text, 
"resist  not  him  that  is  evil,"  enabled  him  to  perceive  the 
reasonableness  of  Christ's  teaching,  which  had  long  baffled 
him.  So  it  is  with  the  problem  of  Art.  Wrongly  under 
stood,  it  will  tend  to  confuse  and  perplex  your  whole  com 
prehension  of  life.  But  given  the  clue  supplied  by  true 
"religious  perception,"  and  you  can  place  art  so  that  it 
shall  fit  in  with  a  right  understanding  of  politics,  economics, 
sex-relationships,  science,  and  all  other  phases  of  human 
activity. 
The  basis  on  which  this  work  rests,  is  a  perception  of 
the  meaning  of  human  life.  This  has  been  quite  lost 
sight  of  by  some  of  the  reviewers,  who  have  merely  mis 
represented  what  Tolstoy  says,  and  then  demonstrated  how 
very  stupid  he  would  have  been  had  he  said  what  they 
attributed  to  him.  Leaving  his  premises  and  arguments  un- 
