WHAT  IS  ART?  105 
even  less  educated  than  our  labourers.  People  talk  about 
incomprehensibility ;  but  if  art  is  the  transmission  of  feelings 
flowing  from  man's  religious  perception,  how  can  a  feeling 
be  incomprehensible  which  is  founded  on  religion,  i.e.  on 
man's  relation  to  God  ?  Such  art  should  be,  and  has  actually, 
always  been,  comprehensible  to  everybody,  because  every 
man's  relation  to  God  is  one  and  the  same.  And  therefore 
the  churches  and  the  images  in  them  were  always  compre 
hensible  to  everyone.  The  hindrance  to  understanding  the 
best  and  highest  feelings  (as  is  said  in  the  gospel)  does  not  at 
all  lie  in  deficiency  of  development  or  learning,  but,  on  the 
contrary,  in  false  development  and  false  learning.  A  good  V 
and  lofty  work  of  art  may  be  incomprehensible,  but  not  to  \ 
simple,  unperverted  peasant  labourers  (all  that  is  highest  is  I 
understood  by  them) — it  may  be,  and  often  is,  unintelligible 
to  erudite,  perverted  people  destitute  of  religion.  And  this 
continually  occurs  in  our  society,  in  which  the  highest  feelings 
are  simply  not  understood.  For  instance,  I  know  people 
who  consider  themselves  most  refined,  and  who  say  that 
they  do  not  understand  the  poetry  of  love  to  one's  neighbour, 
of  self-sacrifice,  or  of  chastity. 
So  that  good,  great,  universal,  religious  art  may  be  incom-     , 
prehensible  to  a  small  circle  of  spoilt  people,  but  certainly 
not  to  any  large  number  of  plain  men. 
Art  cannot  be  incomprehensible  to  the  great  masses 
only  because  it  is  very  good, — as  artists  of  our  day  are  fond 
of  telling  us.  Rather  we  are  bound  to  conclude  that  this 
art  is  unintelligible  to  the  great  masses  only  because  it  is 
very  bad  art,  or  even  is  not  art  at  all.  So  that  the  favourite 
argument  (naively  accepted  by  the  cultured  crowd),  that  in 
order  to  feel  art  one  has  first  to  understand  it  (which 
really  only  means  habituate  oneself  to  it),  is  the  truest 
indication  that  what  we  are  asked  to  understand  by  such 
a  method  is  either  very  bad,  exclusive  art,  or  is  not  art 
at  all. 
