WHAT  IS  ART?  121 
work  of  art,  like  every  true  artist  expressing  in  his  own 
peculiar  manner  a  feeling  he  has  experienced.  Most  people 
are  infected  by  the  artist's  feeling ;  and  his  work  becomes 
known.  Then  criticism,  discussing  the  artist,  says  that  the 
work  is  not  bad,  but  all  the  same  the  artist  is  not  a  Dante, 
nor  a  Shakespear,  nor  a  Goethe,  nor  a  Raphael,  nor  what 
Beethoven  was  in  his  last  period.  And  the  young  artist 
sets  to  work  to  copy  those  who  are  held  up  for  his  imitation, 
and  he  produces  not  only  feeble  works,  but  false  works, 
counterfeits  of  art. 
Thus,  for  instance,  our  Pushkin  writes  his  short  poems, 
Evyeniy  Oner/in,  TJie  Gipsies,  and  his  stories — works  all 
varying  in  quality,  but  all  true  art.  But  then,  under  the 
influence  of  false  criticism  extolling  Shakespear,  he  writes 
Boris  Godunoff,  a  cold,  brain-spun  work,  and  this  production 
is  lauded  by  the  critics,  set  up  as  a  model,  and  imitations  of 
it  appear :  Minin  by  Ostrovsky,  and  Tsar  Boris  by  Alexee 
Tolstoy,  and  such  imitations  of  imitations  as  crowd  all  litera 
tures  with  insignificant  productions.  The  chief  harm  done 
by  the  critics  is  this,  that  themselves  lacking  the  capacity  to 
be  infected  by  art  (and  that  is  the  characteristic  of  all 
critics ;  for  did  they  not  lack  this  they  could  not  attempt 
the  impossible — the  interpretation  of  works  of  art),  they 
pay  most  attention  to,  and  eulogise,  brain-spun,  invented 
works,  and  set  these  up  as  models  worthy  of  imitation. 
That  is  the  reason  they  so  confidently  extol,  in  literature, 
the  Greek  tragedians,  Dante,  Tasso,  Milton,  Shakespear, 
Goethe  (almost  all  he  wrote),  and,  among  recent  writers, 
Zola  and  Ibsen ;  in  music,  Beethoven's  last  period,  and 
Wagner.  To  justify  their  praise  of  these  brain-spun, 
invented  works,  they  devise  entire  theories  (of  which  the 
famous  theory  of  beauty  is  one) ;  and  not  only  dull  but 
also  talented  people  compose  works  in  strict  deference  to 
these  theories  ;  and  often  even  real  artists,  doing  violence  to 
their  genius,  submit  to  them. 
