WHAT  IS  ART?  129 
contact  with  them ;  and  therefore,  if  the  manifestation  of, 
I  will  not  say  several,  but  even  of  two  arts — the  dramatic 
and  the  musical — be  united  in  one  complete  production, 
then  the  demands  of  the  one  art  will  make  it  impossible 
to  fulfil  the  demands  of  the  other,  as  has  always  occurred  in 
the  ordinary  operas,  where  the  dramatic  art  has  submitted  to, 
or  rather  yielded  place  to,  the  musical.  Wagner  wishes  that 
musical  art  should  submit  to  dramatic  art,  and  that  both 
should  appear  in  full  strength.  But  this  is  impossible,  for 
every  work  of  art,  if  it  be  a  true  one,  is  an  expression  of 
intimate  feelings  of  the  artist,  which  are  quite  exceptional,  and 
not  like  anything  else.  Such  is  a  musical  production,  and  such 
is  a  dramatic  work,  if  they  be  true  art.  And  therefore,  in 
order  that  a  production  in  the  one  branch  of  art  should 
coincide  with  a  production  in  the  other  branch,  it  is  necessary 
that  the  impossible  should  happen  :  that  two  works  from 
different  realms  of  art  should  be  absolutely  exceptional, 
unlike  anything  that  existed  before,  and  yet  should  coincide, 
and  be  exactly  alike. 
And  this  cannot  be,  just  as  there  cannot  be  two  men,  or 
even  two  leaves  on  a  tree,  exactly  alike.  Still  less  can  two 
works  from  different  realms  of  art,  the  musical  and  the 
literary,  be  absolutely  alike.  If  they  coincide,  then  either 
one  is  a  work  of  art  and  the  other  a  counterfeit,  or  both  are 
counterfeits.  Two  live  leaves  cannot  be  exactly  alike,  but 
two  artificial  leaves  may  be.  And  so  it  is  with  works  of 
art.  They  can  only  coincide  completely  when  neither  the  - 
one  nor  the  other  is  art,  but  only  cunningly  devised 
semblances  of  it. 
If  poetry  and  music  may  be  joined,  as  occurs  in  hymns, 
songs,  and  romances — (though  even  in  these  the  music  does 
not  follow  the  changes  of  each  verse  of  the  text,  as  Wagner 
wants  to,  but  the  song  and  the  music  merely  produce  a 
coincident  effect  on  the  mind) — this  occurs  only  because 
lyrical  poetry  and  music  have,  to  some  extent,  one  and  the 
9 
