ioo  WHAT  IS  ART? 
progress  towards  greater  and  greater  incomprehensibility 
(on  one  level  of  which  I  am  standing,  with  the  art  familiar 
to  me),  it  has  reached  a  point  where  it  is  understood  by  a 
very  small  number  of  the  elect,  and  the  number  of  these 
chosen  people  is  ever  becoming  smaller  and  smaller. 
As  soon  as  ever  the  art  of  the  upper  classes  separated 
itself  from  universal  art,  a  conviction  arose  that  art  may 
be  art  and  yet  be  incomprehensible  to  the  masses.  And 
as  soon  as  this  position  was  admitted,  it  had  inevitably 
to  be  admitted  also  that  art  may  be  intelligible  only 
to  the  very  smallest  number  of  the  elect,  and,  event 
ually,  to  two,  or  to  one,  of  our  nearest  friends,  or  to  one 
self  alone.  Which  is  practically  what  is  being  said  by 
modern  artists: — "I  create  and  understand  myself,  and  if 
anyone  does  not  understand  me,  so  much  the  worse  for 
him." The  assertion  that  art  may  be  good  art,  and  at  the  same 
time  incomprehensible  to  a  great  number  of  people,  is  ex 
tremely  unjust,  and  its  consequences  are  ruinous  to  art  itself ; 
but  at  the  same  time  it  is  so  common  and  has  so  eaten  into 
our  conceptions,  that  it  is  impossible  sufficiently  to  elucidate 
all  the  absurdity  of  it. 
Nothing  is  more  common  than  to  hear  it  said  of  reputed 
works  of  art,  that  they  are  very  good  but  very  difficult 
to  understand.  We  are  quite  used  to  such  assertions,  and 
yet  to  say  that  a  work  of  art  is  good,  but  incomprehen 
sible  to  the  majority  of  men,  is  the  same  as  saying  of  some 
kind  of  food  that  it  is  very  good  but  that  most  people 
-can't  eat  it.  The  majority  of  men  may  not  like  rotten 
•cheese  or  putrefying  grouse — dishes  esteemed  by  people  with 
perverted  tastes;  but  bread  and  fruit  are  only  good  when 
they  please  the  majority  of  men.  And  it  is  the  same  with 
-art.  Perverted  art  may  not  please  the  majority  of  men,  but 
(good  art  always  pleases  everyone. 
It  is  said  that  the  very  best  works  of  art  are  such  that 
