WHAT  IS  ART?  .23J2< 
words  just  what  is  most  characteristic  of  art.  The  remark 
is  true  of  all  the  arts,  but  its  justice  is  particularly  noticeable 
in  the  performance  of  music.  That  musical  execution  should 
be  artistic,  should  be  art,  i.e.  should  infect,  three  chief  con 
ditions  must  be  observed, — there  are  many  others  needed  for 
musical  perfection ;  the  transition  from  one  sound  to  another 
must  be  interrupted  or  continuous ;  the  sound  must  increase 
or  dimmish  steadily ;  it  must  be  blended  with  one  and  not 
with  another  sound ;  the  sound  must  have  this  or  that 
timbre,  and  much  besides, — but  take  the  three  chief  con 
ditions  :  the  pitch,  the  time,  and  the  strength  of  the  sound. 
Musical  execution  is  only  then  art,  only  then  infects,  when 
the  sound  is  neither  higher  nor  lower  than  it  should  be, 
that  is,  when  exactly  the  infinitely  small  centre  of  the 
required  note  is  taken ;  when  that  note  is  continued  exactly 
as  long  as  is  needed ;  and  when  the  strength  of  the  sound 
is  neither  more  nor  less  than  is  required.  The  slightest 
deviation  of  pitch  in  either  direction,  the  slightest  increase 
or  decrease  in  time,  or  the  slightest  strengthening  or 
weakening  of  the  sound  beyond  what  is  needed,  destroys 
the  perfection  and,  consequently,  the  infectiousness  of 
the  work.  So  that  the  feeling  of  infection  by  the  art  of 
music,  which  seems  so  simple  and  so  easily  obtained,  is 
a  thing  we  receive  only  when  the  performer  finds  those 
infinitely  minute  degrees  which  are  necessary  to  perfection 
in  music.  It  is  the  same  in  all  arts :  a  wee  bit  lighter, 
a  wee  bit  darker,  a  wee  bit  higher,  lower,  to  the  right  or 
the  left  —  in  painting ;  a  wee  bit  weaker  or  stronger  in 
intonation,  or  a  wee  bit  sooner  or  later — in  dramatic  art ; 
a  wee  bit  omitted,  over-emphasised,  or  exaggerated  —  in 
poetry,  and  there  is  no  contagion.  Infection  is  only 
obtained  when  an  artist  finds  those  infinitely  minute  degrees 
of  which  a  work  of  art  consists,  and  only  to  the  extent  to 
which  he  finds  them.  And  it  is  quite  impossible  to  teach 
people  by  external  means  to  find  these  minute  degrees  :  they 
