WHAT  IS  ART?  145 
there  would  not  be  any  well-baked  ones.  It  is  true  that 
where  there  is  gold  there  is  also  much  sand ;  but  that  can 
not  serve  as  a  reason  for  talking  a  lot  of  nonse^fc  in  order 
to  say  something  wise.  AL  ^ 
We  are  surrounded  by  productions  consideiSr  artis^Jb.'  L' Thousands  of  verses,  thousands  of  poems,  thousands  of  novels, 
thousands  of  dramas,  thousands  of  pictures,  thousands  of  x 
musical  pieces,  follow  one  after  another.  All  the  verses 
describe  love,  or  nature,  or  the  author's  state  of  mind,  and 
in  all  of  them  rhyme  and  rhythm  are  observed.  All  the 
dramas  and  comedies  are  splendidly  mounted  and  are  per 
formed  by  admirably  trained  actors.  All  the  novels  are 
divided  into  chapters ;  all  of  them  describe  love,  contain 
effective  situations,  and  correctly  describe  the  details  of  life. 
All  the  symphonies  contain  allegro,  andante,  scherzo,  and 
finale ;  all  consist  of  modulations  and  chords,  and  are  played 
by  highly-trained  musicians.  All  the  pictures,  in  gold  frames, 
saliently  depict  faces  and  sundry  accessories.  But  among 
these  productions  in  the  various  branches  of  art  there  is  in 
each  branch  one  among  hundreds  of  thousands,  not  only 
somewhat  better  than  the  rest,  but  differing  from  them  as  a 
diamond  differs  from  paste.  The  one  is  priceless,  the  others 
not  only  have  no  value  but  are  worse  than  valueless,  for 
they  deceive  and  pervert  taste.  And  yet,  externally,  they 
are,  to  a  man  of  perverted  or  atrophied  artistic  perception, 
precisely  alike. 
In  our  society  the  difficulty  of  recognising  real  works  of 
art  is  further  increased  by  the  fact  that  the  external  quality 
of  the  work  in  false  productions  is  not  only  no  worse,  but 
often  better,  than  in  real  ones ;  the  counterfeit  is  often 
more  effective  than  the  real,  and  its  subject  more  interesting. 
How  is  one  to  discriminate  1  How  is  one  to  find  a  production 
in  no  way  distinguished  in  externals  from  hundreds  of  thou 
sands  of  others  intentionally  made  to  imitate  it  precisely  ? 
For  a  country  peasant   of    unperverted   taste  this    is   as 10 
