WHAT  IS  ART?  139 
That  success  I  explain  to  myself  in  this  way  :  thanks 
to  his  exceptional  position  in  having  at  his  disposal  the 
resources  of  a  king,  Wagner  was  able  to  command  all 
the  methods  for  counterfeiting  art  which  have  been 
developed  by  long  usage,  and,  employing  these  methods 
with  great  ability,  he  produced  a  model  work  of  counter 
feit  art.  The  reason  why  I  have  selected  his  work  for  my 
Illustration  is,  that  in  no  other  counterfeit  of  art  known  to 
me  are  all  the  methods  by  which  art  is  counterfeited — 
namely,  borrowings,  imitation,  effects,  and  interestingness 
— so  ably  and  powerfully  united. 
From  the  subject,  borrowed  from  antiquity,  to  the  clouds 
and  the  risings  of  the  sun  and  moon,  Wagner,  in  this  work, 
has  made  use  of  all  that  is  considered  poetical.  We  have 
here  the  sleeping  beauty,  and  nymphs,  and  subterranean 
fires,  and  gnomes,  and  battles,  and  swords,  and  love,  and 
incest,  and  a  monster,  and  singing-birds  :  the  whole  arsenal 
of  the  poetical  is  brought  into  action. 
Moreover,  everything  is  imitative  :  the  decorations  are 
imitated  and  the  costumes  are  imitated.  All  is  just  as, 
according  to  the  data  supplied  by  archaeology,  they  would 
have  been  in  antiquity.  The  very  sounds  are  imitative,  for 
Wagner,  who  was  not  destitute  of  musical  talent,  invented 
just  such  sounds  as  imitate  the  strokes  of  a  hammer,  the 
hissing  of  molten  iron,  the  singing  of  birds,  etc. 
Furthermore,  in  this  work  everything  is  in  the  highest 
degree  striking  in  its  effects  and  in  its  peculiarities :  its 
monsters,  its  magic  fires,  and  its  scenes  under  water ;  the 
darkness  in  which  the  audience  sit,  the  invisibility  of  the 
orchestra,  and  the  hitherto  unemployed  combinations  of 
harmony. 
And  besides,  it  is  all  interesting.  The  interest  lies  not 
only  in  the  question  who  will  kill  whom,  and  who  will 
marry  whom,  and  who  is  whose  son,  and  what  will  happen 
next1? — the  interest  lies  also  in  the  relation  of  the  music 
