WHAT  IS  ART?  101 
they  cannot  be  understood  by  the  mass,  but  are  accessible 
only  to  the  elect  who  are  prepared  to  understand  these  great 
works.  But  if  the  majority  of  men  do  not  understand,  the 
knowledge  necessary  to  enable  them  to  understand  should 
be  taught  and  explained  to  them.  But  it  turns  out  that 
there  is  no  such  knowledge,  that  the  works  cannot  be 
explained,  and  that  those  who  say  the  majority  do  not 
understand  good  works  of  art,  still  do  not  explain  those 
works,  but  only  tell  us  that,  in  order  to  understand  them, 
one  must  read,  and  see,  and  hear  these  same  works  over 
and  over  again.  But  this  is  not  to  explain,  it  is  only  to 
habituate !  And  people  may  habituate  themselves  to  any 
thing,  even  to  the  very  worst  things.  As  people  may  habitu 
ate  themselves  to  bad  food,  to  spirits,  tobacco/  and  opium, 
just  in  the  same  way  they  may  habituate  themselves  _to  bad 
art — and  that  is  exactly  what  is  being  done. 
Moreover,  it  cannot  be  said  that  the  majority  of  people 
lack  the  taste  to  esteem  the  highest  works  of  art.  The 
majority  always  have  understood,  and  still  understand,  what 
we  also  recognise  as  being  the  very  best  art :  the  epic  of 
Genesis,  the  Gospel  parables,  folk-legends,  fairy-tales,  and 
folk-songs  are  understood  by  all.  How  can  it  be  that  the 
majority  has  suddenly  lost  its  capacity  to  understand  what 
is  high  in  our  art "? Of  a  speech  it  may  be  said  that  it  is  admirable,  but  in 
comprehensible  to  those  who  do  not  know  the  language  in 
which  it  is  delivered.  A  speech  delivered  in  Chinese  may 
be  excellent,  and  may  yet  remain  incomprehensible  to  me 
if  I  do  not  know  Chinese ;  but  what  distinguishes  a  work  of 
art  from  all  other  mental  activity  is  just  the  fact  that  its 
language  is  understood  by  all,  and  that  it  infects  all  without 
distinction.  The  tears  and  laughter  of  a  Chinese  infect  me 
just  as  the  laughter  and  tears  of  a  Russian ;  and  it  is  the 
same  with  painting  and  music  and  poetry,  when  it  is  trans 
lated  into  a  language  I  understand.  The  songs  of  a  Kirghiz 
