64  WHAT  IS  ART  ? 
like  everybody  else,  always  and  everywhere)  considered 
art  (like  everything  else)  good  only  when  it  served  goodness 
(as  they  understood  goodness),  and  bad  when  it  was  in 
opposition  to  that  goodness.  And  the  Greeks  themselves 
were  so  little  developed  morally,  that  goodness  and  beauty 
seemed  to  them  to  coincide.  On  that  obsolete  Greek  view 
of  life  was  erected  the  science  of  aesthetics,  invented  by  men 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  and  especially  shaped  and 
mounted  in  Baumgarten's  theory.  The  Greeks  (as  anyone 
may  see  who  will  read  Benard's  admirable  book  on  Aristotle 
and  his  successors,  and  Walter's  work  on  Plato)  never  had  a science  of  aesthetics. 
^Esthetic  theories  arose  about  one  hundred  and  fifty 
years  ago  among  the  wealthy  classes  of  the  Christian 
European  world,  and  arose  simultaneously  among  different 
nations, — German,  Italian,  Dutch,  French,  and  English. 
The  founder  and  organiser  of  it,  who  gave  it  a  scientific, 
theoretic  form,  was  Baumgarten. 
With  a  characteristically  German,  external  exactitude, 
pedantry  and  symmetry,  he  devised  and  expounded  this 
extraordinary  theory.  And,  notwithstanding  its  obvious 
insolidity,  nobody  else's  theory  so  pleased  the  cultured 
crowd,  or  was  accepted  so  readily  and  with  such  an 
absence  of  criticism.  It  so  suited  the  people  of  the  upper 
classes,  that  to  this  day,  notwithstanding  its  entirely  fantastic 
character  and  the  arbitrary  nature  of  its  assertions,  it  is 
repeated  by  learned  and  unlearned  as  though  it  were  some 
thing  indubitable  and  self-evident. 
Habent  sua  fata  libelli  pro  capite  lectoris,  and  so,  or  even 
more  so,  theories  Jiabent  sua  fata  according  to  the  condition 
of  error  in  which  that  society  is  living,  among  whom  and  for 
whom  the  theories  are  invented.  If  a  theory  justifies  the  false 
position  in  which  a  certain  part  of  a  society  is  living,  then, 
however  unfounded  or  even  obviously  false  the  theory  may 
be,  it  is  accepted,  and  becomes  an  article  of  faith  to  that 
