70  WHAT  TS  ART? 
I  think  they  do  not  themselves  believe  it.  They  cannot 
help  knowing  that  fine  art  can  arise  only  on  the  slavery  of 
the  masses  of  the  people,  and  can  continue  only  as  long  as 
that  slavery  lasts,  and  they  cannot  help  knowing  that  only 
under  conditions  of  intense  labour  for  the  workers,  can 
specialists— writers,  musicians,  dancers,  and  actors — arrive 
at  that  line  degree  of  perfection  to  which  they  do  attain, 
or  produce  their  refined  works  of  art ;  and  only  under  the 
same  conditions  can  there  be  a  line  public  to  esteem  such 
productions.  Free  the  slaves  of  capital,  and  it  will  be 
impossible  to  produce  such  refined  art. 
But  even  were  we  to  admit  the  inadmissible,  and  say  that 
means  may  be  found  by  which  art  (that  art  which  among  us 
is  considered  to  be  art)  may  be  accessible  to  the  whole 
people,  another  consideration  presents  itself  showing  that 
fashionable  art  cannot  be  the  whole  of  art,  viz.  the  fact 
that  it  is  completely  unintelligible  to  the  people.  Formerly 
men  wrote  poems  in  Latin,  but  now  their  artistic  productions 
are  as  unintelligible  to  the  common  folk  as  if  they  were 
written  in  Sanskrit.  The  usual  reply  to  this  is,  that  if  the 
people  do  not  now  understand  this  art  of  ours,  it  only  proves 
that  they  are  undeveloped,  and  that  this  has  been  so  at  each 
fresh  step  forward  made  by  art.  First  it  was  not  under 
stood,  but  afterwards  people  got  accustomed  to  it. 
"  It  will  be  the  same  with  our  present  art ;  it  will  be 
understood  when  everybody  is  as  well  educated  as  are  we — 
the  people  of  the  upper  classes — who  produce  this  art,"  say 
the  defenders  of  our  art.  But  this  assertion  is  evidently 
even  more  unjust  than  the  former ;  for  we  know  that  the 
majority  of  the  productions  of  the  art  of  the  upper  classes, 
such  as  various  odes,  poems,  dramas,  cantatas,  pastorals, 
pictures,  etc.,  which  delighted  the  people  of  the  upper 
classes  when  they  were  produced,  never  were  afterwards 
either  understood  or  valued  by  the  great  masses  of  man 
kind,  but  have  remained,  what  they  were  at  first,  a  mere 
