WHAT  IS  ART?  I. 19 
their  names  to  it;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  works  produced 
by  court  poets,  dramatists  and  musicians  receiving  honours 
and  remuneration ;  and  later  on  by  professional  artists,  who 
lived  by  the  trade,  receiving  remuneration  from  newspaper 
editors,  publishers,  impresarios,  and  in  general  from  those 
agents  who  come  between  the  artists  and  the  town  public — 
the  consumers  of  art. 
Professionalism  is  the  first  condition  of  the  diffusion  of 
false,  counterfeit  art. 
The  second  condition  is  the  growth,  in  recent  times,  of 
artistic  criticism,  i.e.  the  valuation  of  art  not  by  everybody, 
and,  above  all,  not  by  plain  men,  but  by  erudite,  that  is,  by 
perverted  and  at  the  same  time  self-confident  individuals. 
A  friend  of  mine,  speaking  of  the  relation  of  critics  to 
artists,  half-jokingly  defined  it  thus  :  "  Critics  are  the  stupid 
who  discuss  the  wise."  However  partial,  inexact,  and  rude 
this  definition  may  be,  it  is  yet  partly  true,  and  is  incom 
parably  juster  than  the  definition  which  considers  critics  to 
be  men  who  can  explain  works  of  art. 
"  Critics  explain  !  "     What  do  they  explain  ? 
The  artist,  if  a  real  artist,  has  by  his  work  transmitted 
to  others  the  feeling  he  experienced.  What  is  there,  then, 
to  explain  ? 
If  a  work  be  good  as  art,  then  the  feeling  expressed  by 
the  artist — be  it  moral  or  immoral — transmits  itself  to 
other  people.  If  transmitted  to  others,  then  they  feel  it, 
and  all  interpretations  are  superfluous.  If  the  work -does 
not  infect  people,  no  explanation  can  make  it  contagious. 
An  artist's  work  cannot  be  interpreted.  Had  it  been  pos 
sible  to  explain  in  words  what  he  wished  to  convey,  the 
artist  would  have  expressed  himself  in  words.  He  expressed 
it  by  his  art,  only  because  the  feeling  he  experienced  could 
not  be  otherwise  transmitted.  The  interpretation  of  works 
of  art  by  words  only  indicates  that  the  interpreter  is  him 
self  incapable  of  feeling  the  infection  of  art.  And  this  is 
