WHAT  IS  ART?  ill 
Poetic — means  borrowed.  All  borrowing  merely  recalls  to 
the  reader,  spectator,  or  listener  some  dim  recollection  of 
artistic  impressions  they  have  received  from  previous 
works  of  art,  and  does  not  infect  them  with  feeling  which 
the  artist  has  himself  experienced.  A  work  founded  on 
something  borrowed,  like  Goethe's  Faust  for  instance,  may 
be  very  Avell  executed  and  be  full  of  mind  and  every  beauty,, 
but  because  it  lacks  the  chief  characteristic  of  a  work  of  art — • 
completeness,  oneness,  the  inseparable  unity  of  form  and 
contents  expressing  the  feeling  the  artist  has  experienced — 
it  cannot  produce  a  really  artistic  impression.  In  availing 
himself  of  this  method,  the  artist  only  transmits  the  feeling 
received  by  him  from  a  previous  work  of  art ;  therefore  every 
borrowing,  whether  it  be  of  whole  subjects,  or  of  various 
scenes,  situations,  or  descriptions,  is  but  a  reflection  of  art,. 
a  simulation  of  it,  but  not  art  itself.  And  therefore,  to  say 
that  a  certain  production  is  good  because  it  is  poetic, — i.e. 
resembles  a  work  of  art, — is  like  saying  of  a  coin  that  it  is 
good  because  it  resembles  real  money. 
Equally  little  can  imitation,  realism,  serve,  as  many  people 
think,  as  a  measure  of  the  quality  of  art.  Imitation  cannot 
be  such  a  measure,  for  the  chief  characteristic  of  art  is  the 
infection  of  others  with  the  feelings  the  artist  has  experienced, 
and  infection  with  a  feeling  is  not  only  not  identical  with 
description  of  the  accessories  of  what  is  transmitted,  but 
is  usually  hindered  by  superfluous  details.  The  attention 
of  the  receiver  of  the  artistic  impression  is  diverted  by  all 
these  well-observed  details,  and  they  hinder  the  transmission 
of  feeling  even  when  it  exists. 
To  value  a  work  of  art  by  the  degree  of  its  realism,  by  the 
accuracy  of  the  details  reproduced,  is  as  strange  as  to  judge 
of  the  nutritive  quality  of  food  by  its  external  appearance. 
When  we  appraise  a  work  according  to  its  realism,  we  only 
show  that  we  are  talking,  not  of  a  work  of  art,  but  of  its-' counterfeit. 
