no  WHAT  IS  ART? 
or  that  the  harmony,  tone,  and  rhythm  be  not  at  all  those 
naturally  flowing  from  the  course  of  the  musical  thought,  but 
such  as  strike  one  by  their  unexpectedness.  Besides  these,  the 
commonest  effects  in  music  are  produced  in  a  purely  physical 
manner  by  strength  of  sound,  especially  in  an  orchestra. 
Such  are  some  of  the  most  usual  effects  in  the  various 
arts,  but  there  yet  remains  one  common  to  them  all,  namely, 
to  convey  by  means  of  one  art  what  it  would  be  natural  to 
convey  by  another :  for  instance,  to  make  music  describe  (as  is 
done  by  the  programme  music  of  Wagner  and  his  followers), 
or  to  make  painting,  the  drama,  or  poetry,  induce  a  frame  of 
mind  (as  is  aimed  at  by  all  the  Decadent  art). 
The  fourth  method  is  that  of  interesting  (that  is,  absorbing 
the  mind)  in  connection  with  works  of  art.  The  interest 
may  lie  in  an  intricate  plot — a  method  till  quite  recently 
much  employed  in  English  novels  and  French  plays,  but 
now  going  out  of  fashion  and  being  replaced  by  authenticity, 
i.e.  by  detailed  description  of  some  historical  period  or  some 
branch  of  contemporary  life.  For  example,  in  a  novel, 
interesting-ness  may  consist  in  a  description  of  Egyptian  or 
Eoman  life,  the  life  of  miners,  or  that  of  the  clerks  in  a 
large  shop.  The  reader  becomes  interested  and  mistakes 
this  interest  for  an  artistic  impression.  The  interest  may 
also  depend  on  the  very  method  of  expression;  a  kind  of 
interest  that  has  now  come  much  into  use.  Both  verse  and 
prose,  as  well  as  pictures,  plays,  and  music,  are  constructed 
.  so  that  they  must  be  guessed  like  riddles,  and  this  process 
of  guessing  again  affords  pleasure  and  gives  a  semblance  of 
the  feeling  received  from  art. 
It  is  very  often  said  that  a  work  of  art  is  very  good 
f  because  it  is  poetic,  or  realistic,  or  striking,   or  interesting; 
)  whereas  not  only  can  neither  the  first,  nor  the  second,  nor 
^  the   third,    nor   the    fourth   of    these   attributes   supply   a 
)  standard   of    excellence   in   art,    but   they   have   not   even 
1  anything  in  common  with  art. 
