WHAT  IS  ART?  83 
poets  of  all  other  countries  think  and  act  in  the  same  way : 
German,  and  Scandinavian,  and  Italian,  and  Russian,  and 
English.  So  also  do  the  artists  of  the  new  period  in  all 
branches  of  art :  in  painting,  in  sculpture,  and  in  music. 
Relying  on  Nietzsche  and  Wagner,  the  artists  of  the  new 
age  conclude  that  it  is  unnecessary  for  them  to  be  intelli 
gible  to  the  vulgar  crowd ;  it  is  enough  for  them  to  evoke 
poetic  emotion  in  "the  finest  nurtured,"  to  borrow  a  phrase 
from  an  English  aesthetician. 
In  order  that  what  I  am  saying  may  not  seem  to  be 
mere  assertion,  I  will  quote  at  least  a  few  examples  from 
the  French  poets  who  have  led  this  movement.  The  name 
of  these  poets  is  legion.  I  have  taken  French  writers, 
because  they,  more  decidedly  than  any  others,  indicate  the 
new  direction  of  art,  and  are  imitated  by  most  European 
writers. 
Besides  those  whose  names  are  already  considered  famous, 
such  as  Baudelaire  and  Yerlaine,  here  are  the  names  of  a 
few  of  them :  Jean  Moreas,  Charles  Morice,  Henri  de 
Regnier,  Charles  Vignier,  Adrien  Remade,  Rene  Ghil, 
Maurice  Maeterlinck,  G.  Albert  Aurier,  Eemy  de  Gour- 
mont,  Saint-Pol-Roux-le-Magnifique,  Georges  Rodenbach, 
le  comte  Robert  de  Montesquiou-Fezensac.  These  are 
Symbolists  and  Decadents.  Next  we  have  the  "Magi": 
Josephin  Peladan,  Paul  Adam,  Jules  Bois,  M.  Papus, 
and  others. 
Besides  these,  there  are  yet  one  hundred  and  forty-one 
others,  whom  Dournic  mentions  in  the  book  referred  to 
above. 
Here  are  some  examples  from  the  work  of  those  of 
them  who  are  considered  to  be  the  best,  beginning  with 
that  most  celebrated  man,  acknowledged  to  be  a  great 
artist  worthy  of  a  monument — Baudelaire.  This  is  a 
poem  from  his  celebrated  Fleurs  du  Mai : — 
