146  WHAT  IS  ART? 
easy  as  it  is  for  an  animal  of  unspoilt  scent  to  follow 
the  trace  he  needs  among  a  thousand  others  in  wood  or 
forest.  The  animal  unerringly  finds  what  he  needs.  So 
also  the  man,  if  only  his  natural  qualities  have  not  been 
perverted,  will,  without  fail,  select  from  among  thousands 
of  objects  the  real  work  of  art  he  requires — that  infecting 
him  with  the  feeling  experienced  by  the  artist.  But  it  is 
not  so  with  those  whose  taste  has  been  perverted  by  their 
education  and  life.  The  receptive  feeling  for  art  of  these 
people  is  atrophied,  and  in  valuing  artistic  productions  they 
must  be  guided  by  discussion  and  study,  which  discus 
sion  and  study  completely  confuse  them.  So  that  most 
people  in  our  society  are  quite  unable  to  distinguish  a  work 
of  art  from  the  grossest  counterfeit.  People  sit  for  whole 
hours  in  concert-rooms  and  theatres  listening  to  the  new 
composers,  consider  it  a  duty  to  read  the  novels  of  the 
famous  modern  novelists  and  to  look  at  pictures  represent 
ing  either  something  incomprehensible  or  just  the  very 
things  they  see  much  better  in  real  life;  and,  above  all, 
they  consider  it  incumbent  on  them  to  be  enraptured  by 
all  this,  imagining  it  all  to  be  art,  while  at  the  same  time 
they  will  pass  real  works  of  art  by,  not  only  without 
attention,  but  even  with  contempt,  merely  because,  in  their 
circle,  these  works  are  not  included  in  the  list  of  works 
of  art. 
A  few  days  ago  I  was  returning  home  from  a  walk  feeling 
depressed,  as  occurs  sometimes.  On  nearing  the  house  I 
heard  the  loud  singing  of  a  large  choir  of  peasant  women. 
They  were  welcoming  my  daughter,  celebrating  her  return 
home  after  her  marriage.  In  this  singing,  with  its  cries 
and  clanging  of  scythes,  such  a  definite  feeling  of  joy, 
cheerfulness,  and  energy  was  expressed,  that,  without 
noticing  how  it  infected  me,  I  continued  my  way  towards 
the  house  in  a  better  mood,  and  reached  home  smiling  and 
quite  in  good  spirits.  That  same  evening,  a  visitor,  an 
