x  INTRODUCTION. 
to,  or  reproductions  of,  works — old  German  legends,  Greek 
myths,  or  Hebrew  poetry — which  moved  us  long  ago,  as 
they  moved  generations  before  us.  And  we  thought  all  this 
was  "art."  Not  clearly  understanding  what  art  is,  and 
wherein  its  importance  lies,  we  were  not  only  attached  to 
these  things,  but  attributed  importance  to  them,  calling 
them  "artistic"  and  "beautiful,"  without  well  knowing 
what  we  meant  by  those  words. 
But  here  is  a  book  that  obliges  us  to  clear  our  minds. 
It  challenges  us  to  define  "art"  and  "beauty,"  and  to  say 
why  we  consider  these  things,  that  pleased  us,  to  be  specially 
important.  And  as  to  beauty,  we  find  that  the  definition 
given  by  aesthetic  writers  amounts  merely  to  this,  that 
"Beauty  is  a  kind  of  pleasure  received  by  us,  not  having 
personal  advantage  for  its  object."  But  it  follows  from  this, 
that  "  beauty  "  is  a  matter  of  taste,  differing  among  different 
people,  and  to  attach  special  importance  to  what  pleases 
me  (and  others  who  have  had  the  same  sort  of  training 
that  I  have  had)  is  merely  to  repeat  the  old,  old  mistake 
which  so  divides  human  society;  it  is  like  declaring  that  my 
race  is  the  best  race,  my  nation  the  best  nation,  my 
church  the  best  church,  and  my  family  the  "  best  "  family. 
It  indicates  ignorance  and  selfishness. 
But  "truth  angers  those  whom  it  does  not  convince;" 
—people  do  not  wish  to  understand  these  things.  It  seems, 
at  first,  as  though  Tolstoy  were  obliging  us  to  sacrifice  some 
thing  valuable.  We  do  not  realise  that  we  are  being  helped 
to  select  the  best  art,  but  we  do  feel  that  we  are  being 
deprived  of  our  sense  of  satisfaction  in  Rudyard  Kipling. 
Both  the  magnitude  and  the  difficulty  of  the  task  were 
therefore  very  great,  but  they  have  been  surmounted  in  a 
marvellous  manner.  Of  the  effect  this  book  has  had  on  me 
personally,  I  can  only  say  that  "whereas  I  was  blind,  now  I 
see."  Though  sensitive  to  some  forms  of  art,  I  was,  when 
I  took  it  up,  much  in  the  dark  on  questions  of  aesthetic 
