ip  WHAT  IS  ART? 
t- can  only  be  found  when  a  man  yields  to  his  feeling.  No 
instruction  can  make  a  dancer  catch  just  the  tact  of  the 
music,  or  a  singer  or  a  fiddler  take  exactly  the  infinitely 
minute  centre  of  his  note,  or  a  sketcher  draw  of  all  possible 
lines  the  only  right  one,  or  a  poet  find  the  only  meet  arrange 
ment  of  the  only  suitable  words.  All  this  is  found  only 
by  feeling.  And  therefore  schools  may  teach  what  is  neces 
sary  in  order  to  produce  something  resembling  art,  but  not 
art  itself. 
The  teaching  of  the  schools  stops  there  where  the  wee 
bit  begins — consequently  where  art  begins. 
Accustoming  people  to  something  resembling  art,  dis 
accustoms  them  to  the  comprehension  of  real  art.  And  that 
is  how  it  comes  about  that  none  are  more  dull  to  art  than 
those  who  have  passed  through  the  professional  schools  and 
been  most  successful  in  them.  Professional  schools  produce 
an  hypocrisy  of  art  precisely  ,akin  to  that  hypocrisy  of 
religion  which  is  produced  by  theological  colleges  for 
training  priests,  pastors,  and  religious  teachers  generally. 
As  it  is  impossible  in  a  school  to  train  a  man  so  as  to 
make  a  religious  teacher  of  him,  so  it  is  impossible  to  teach 
a  man  how  to  become  an  artist. 
Art  schools  are  thus  doubly  destructive  of  art :  first,  in 
that  they  destroy  the  capacity  to  produce  real  art  in  those 
who  have  the  misfortune  to  enter  them  and  go  through  a 
7  or  8  years'  course;  secondly,  in  that  they  generate 
enormous  quantities  of  that  counterfeit  art  which  perverts 
the  taste  of  the  masses  and  overflows  our  world.  In 
order  that  born  artists  may  know  the  methods  of  the 
various  arts  elaborated  by  former  artists,  there  should 
exist  in  all  elementary  schools  such  classes  for  drawing 
and  music  (singing)  that,  after  passing  through  them, 
every  talented  scholar  may,  by  using  existing  models 
accessible  to  all,  be  able  to  perfect  himself  in  his  art 
independently. 
