xiv  INTRODUCTION. 
touched,  they  dissent  from  various  conclusions — as  though  it 
were  all  a  mere  question  of  taste.  They  say  that  they  are  very 
fond  of  things  which  Tolstoy  ridicules,  and  that  they  can't 
understand  why  he  does  not  like  what  they  like — which  is 
quite  possible,  especially  if  they  have  not  understood 
the  position  from  which  he  starts.  But  such  criticism 
can  lead  to  nothing.  Discussions  as  to  why  one  man  likes 
pears  and  another  prefers  meat,  do  not  help  towards 
finding  a  definition  of  what  is  essential  in  nourishment; 
and  just  so,  "  the  solution  of  questions  of  taste  in  art  does 
not  help  to  make  clear  what  this  particular  human  activity 
which  we  call  art  really  consists  in." 
The  object  of  the  following  brief  summary  of  a  few  main 
points  is  to  help  the  reader  to  avoid  pitfalls  into  which 
many  reviewers  have  fallen.  It  aims  at  being  no  more  than 
a  bare  statement  of  the  positions — for  more  than  that,  the 
reader  must  turn  to  the  book  itself. 
Let  it  be  granted  at  the  outset,  that  Tolstoy  writes  for 
those  who  have  "ears  to  hear."  He  seldom  pauses  to  safe 
guard  himself  against  the  captious  critic,  and  cares  little 
for  minute  verbal  accuracy.  For  instance,  on  page  144,  he 
mentions  "Paris,"  where  an  English  writer  (even  one  who 
knew  to  what  an  extent  Paris  is  the  art  centre  of  France, 
and  how  many  artists  flock  thither  from  Russia,  America, 
and  all  ends  of  the  earth)  would  have  been  almost  sure  to 
have  said  "France,"  for  fear  of  being  thought  to  exaggerate. 
One  needs  some  alertness  of  mind  to  follow  Tolstoy  in  his 
task  of  compressing  so  large  a  subject  into  so  small  a 
space.  Moreover,  he  is  an  emphatic  writer  who  says 
what  he  means,  and  even,  I  think,  sometimes  rather 
over-emphasises  it.  With  this  much  warning  let  us  pro 
ceed  to  a  brief  summary  of  Tolstoy's  view  of  art. 
"Art  is  a  human  activity,"  and  consequently  does  not 
exist  for  its  own  sake,  but  is  valuable  or  objectionable  in 
proportion  as  it  is  serviceable  or  harmful  to  mankind. 
