132  WHAT  IS  ART? 
works  without  seeing  them  on  the  stage.  The  Second  Day 
of  this  drama,  which,  as  I  was  told,  is  the  best  part  of  the 
whole  work,  was  given  in  Moscow  last  winter,  and  I  went 
to  see  the  performance. 
When  I  arrived  the  enormous  theatre  was  already  filled 
from  top  to  bottom.  There  were  Grand-Dukes,  and  the 
flower  of  the  aristocracy,  of  the  merchant  class,  of  the 
learned,  and  of  the  middle-class  official  public.  Most  of 
them  held  the  libretto,  fathoming  its  meaning.  Musicians 
— some  of  them  elderly,  grey-haired  men — followed  the 
music,  score  in  hand.  Evidently  the  performance  of  this 
work  was  an  event  of  importance. 
I  was  rather  late,  but  I  was  told  that  the  short  prelude, 
with  which  the  act  begins,  was  of  little  importance,  and 
that  it  did  not  matter  having  missed  it.  When  I  arrived, 
an  actor  sat  on  the  stage  amid  decorations  intended  to 
represent  a  cave,  and  before  something  which  was  meant  to 
represent  a  smith's  forge.  He  was  dressed  in  trico-tightsr with  a  cloak  of  skins,  wore  a  wig  and  an  artificial  beard,  and 
with  white,  weak,  genteel  hands  (his  easy  movements,  and 
especially  the  shape  of  his  stomach  and  his  lack  of  muscle 
revealed  the  actor)  beat  an  impossible  sword  with  an 
unnatural  hammer  in  a  way  in  which  no  one  ever  uses 
a  hammer ;  and  at  the  same  time,  opening  his  mouth 
in  a  strange  way,  he  sang  something  incomprehensible. 
The  music  of  various  instruments  accompanied  the  strange 
sounds  which  he  emitted.  From  the  libretto  one  was 
able  to  gather  that  the  actor  had  to  represent  a  powerful 
gnome,  who  lived  in  the  cave,  and  who  was  forging  a  sword 
for  Siegfried,  whom  he  had  reared.  One  could  tell 
he  was  a  gnome  by  the  fact  that  the  actor  walked 
all  the  time  bending  the  knees  of  his  trico-covered 
legs.  This  gnome,  still  opening  his  mouth  in  the  same 
strange  way,  long  continued  to  sing  or  shout.  The  music 
meanwhile  runs  over  something  strange,  like  beginnings 
