120  WHAT  IS  ART? 
actually  the  case,  for,  however  strange  it  may  seem  to  say 
so,  critics  have  always  been  people  less  susceptible  than 
other  men  to  the  contagion  of  art.  For  the  most  part  they 
are  able  writers,  educated  and  clever,  but  with  their  capacity 
of  being  infected  by  art  quite  perverted  or  atrophied.  And 
therefore  their  writings  have  always  largely  contributed,  and 
still  contribute,  to  the  perversion  of  the  taste  of  that  public 
which  reads  them  and  trusts  them. 
Artistic  criticism  did  not  exist — could  not  and  cannot 
exist — in  societies  where  art  is  undivided,  and  where,  con 
sequently,  it  is  appraised  by  the  religious  understanding-of- 
life  common  to  the  whole  people.  Art  criticism  grew, 
and  could  grow,  only  on  the  art  of  the  upper  classes,  who 
did  not  acknowledge  the  religious  perception  of  their  time. 
Universal  art  has  a  definite  and  indubitable  internal 
criterion — religious  perception ;  upper-class  art  lacks  this,  and 
therefore  the  appreciators  of  that  art  are  obliged  to  cling  to 
some  external  criterion.  And  they  find  it  in  "  the  judgments 
of  the  finest-nurtured,"  as  an  English  sesthetician  has 
phrased  it,  that  is,  in  the  authority  of  the  people  who  are 
considered  educated,  nor  in  this  alone,  but  also  in  a  tradition 
of  such  authorities.  This  tradition  is  extremely  misleading, 
both  because  the  opinions  of  "  the  finest-nurtured  "  are  often 
mistaken,  and  also  because  judgments  which  were  valid 
once  cease  to  be  so  with  the  lapse  of  time.  But  the  critics, 
having  no  basis  for  their  judgments,  never  cease  to  repeat 
their  traditions.  The  classical  tragedians  were  once  con 
sidered  good,  and  therefore  criticism  considers  them  to  be  so 
still.  Dante  was  esteemed  a  great  poet,  Raphael  a  great 
painter,  Each  a  great  musician — and  the  critics,  lacking  a 
standard  by  which  to  separate  good  art  from  bad,  not  only 
consider  these  artists  great,  but  regard  all  their  productions 
as  admirable  and  worthy  of  imitation.  Nothing  has  contri 
buted,  and  still  contributes,  so  much  to  the  perversion  of  art 
as  these  authorities  set  up  by  criticism.  A  man  produces  a 
