90  WHAT  IS  ART? 
note  the  amazing  celebrity  of  these  two  versifiers,  Baudelaire 
and  Verlaine,  who  are  now  accepted  as  being  great  poets. 
How  the  French,  who  had  Ch6nier,  Musset,  Lamartine,  and, 
above  all,  Hugo,  —  and  among  whom  quite  recently  flourished 
the  so-called  Parnassiens:  Leconte  de  Lisle,  Sully-Prud- 
homme,  etc.,  —  could  attribute  such  importance  to  these  two 
versifiers,  who  were  far  from  skilful  in  form  and  most  con 
temptible  and  commonplace  in  subject-matter,  is  to  me  incom 
prehensible.  The  conception-of-lif  e  of  one  of  them,  Baudelaire, 
consisted  in  elevating  gross  egotism  into  a  theory,  and 
replacing  morality  by  a  cloudy  conception  of  beauty,  and 
especially  artificial  beauty.  Baudelaire  had  a  preference, 
which  he  expressed,  for  a  woman's  face  painted  rather  than 
showing  its  natural  colour,  and  for  metal  trees  and  a 
theatrical  imitation  of  water  rather  than  real  trees  and 
real  water. 
The  life-conception  of  the  other,  Yerlaine,  consisted  in 
weak  profligacy,  confession  of  his  moral  impotence,  and, 
as  an  antidote  to  that  impotence,  in  the  grossest  Roman 
Catholic  idolatry.  Both,  moreover,  were  quite  lacking  in 
naivete,  sincerity,  and  simplicity,  and  both  overflowed  with 
artificiality,  forced  originality,  and  self-assurance.  So  that 
in  their  least  bad  productions  one  sees  more  of  M.  Baude 
laire  or  M.  Yerlaine  than  of  what  they  were  describing. 
But  these  two  indifferent  versifiers  form  a  school,  and  lead 
hundreds  of  followers  after  them. 
There  is  only  one  explanation  of  this  fact  :  it  is  that  the 
art  of  the  society  in  which  these  versifiers  lived  is  not  a 
serious,  important  matter  of  life,  but  is  a  mere 
And  all  amusements  grow  wearisome  by  repetition4. in  order  to  make  wearisome  amusement  again  tolerable,  it 
is  necessary  to  find  some  means  to  freshen  it  up.  When, 
at  cards,  ombre  grows  stale,  whist  is  introduced  ;  when  whist 
grows  stale,  ecarte  is  substituted  ;  when  ecart6  grows  stale, 
some  other  novelty  is  invented,  and  so  on.  The  substance 
