1NTR  OD  UCTION.  ix 
Of  Ruskin,  Tolstoy  has  a  very  high  opinion.  I  have 
heard  him  say,  "  I  don't  know  why  you  English  make 
such  a  fuss  about  Gladstone — you  have  a  much  greater 
man  in  Ruskin."  As  a  stylist,  too,  Tolstoy  speaks  of 
him  with  high  commendation.  Ruskin,  however,  though 
he  has  written  on  art  with  profound  insight,  and  has 
said  many  things  with  which  Tolstoy  fully  agrees,  has, 
I  think,  nowhere  so  systematised  and  summarised  his  view 
that  it  can  be  readily  quoted  in  the  concise  way  which  has 
enabled  Tolstoy  to  indicate  his  points  of  essential  agree 
ment  with  Home,  Veron,  and  Kant.  Even  the  attempt  to 
summarise  Kant's  aesthetic  philosophy  in  a  dozen  lines  will 
hardly  be  of  much  service  except  to  readers  who  have  already 
some  acquaintance  with  the  subject.  For  those  to  whom  the 
difference  between  "subjective"  and  "objective"  percep 
tions  is  fresh,  a  dozen  pages  would  be  none  too  much.  And 
to  summarise  Ruskin  would  be  perhaps  more  difficult  than 
to  condense  Kant. 
As  to  William  Morris,  we  are  reminded  of  his  dictum  that 
art  is  the  workman's  expression  of  joy  in  his  work,  by 
Tolstoy's  "As  soon  as  the  author  is  not  producing  art  for 
his  own  satisfaction, — does  not  himself  feel  what  he  wishes 
to  express, — a  resistance  immediately  springs  up"  (p.  154); 
and  again,  "  In  such  transmission  to  others  of  the  feelings 
that  have  arisen  in  him,  he  (the  artist)  will  find  his  happi 
ness"  (p.  195).  Tolstoy  sweeps  over  a  far  wider  range  of 
thought,  but  he  and  Morris  are  not  opposed.  Morris  was 
emphasising  part  of  what  Tolstoy  is  implying. 
But  to  return  to  the  difficulties  of  Tolstoy's  task.  There 
is  one,  not  yet  mentioned,  lurking  in  the  hearts  of  most  of 
us.  We  have  enjoyed  works  of  "art."  We  have  been 
interested  by  the  information  conveyed  in  a  novel,  or  we 
have  been  thrilled  by  an  unexpected  "effect";  have admired  the  exactitude  with  which  real  life  has  been 
reproduced,  or  have  had  our  feelings  touched  by  allusions b 
