WHAT  IS  ART?  95 
great  pyramid.  And  this  is  not  all.  The  same  is  going  on 
in  all  the  other  arts :  millions  and  millions  of  working 
days  are  being  spent  on  the  production  of  equally 
incomprehensible  works  in  painting,  in  music,  and  in  the 
drama. 
Painting  not  only  does  not  lag  behind  poetry  in  this 
matter,  but  rather  outstrips  it.  Here  is  an  extract  from 
the  diary  of  an  amateur  of  art,  written  when  visiting  the 
Paris  exhibitions  in  1894  : — 
"  I  was  to-day  at  three  exhibitions  :  the  Symbolists',  the 
Impressionists',  and  the  Neo-Impressionists'.  I  looked  at 
the  pictures  conscientiously  and  carefully,  but  again  felt  the 
same  stupefaction  and  ultimate  indignation.  The  first 
exhibition,  that  of  Camille  Pissarro,  was  comparatively  the 
most  comprehensible,  though  the  pictures  were  out  of 
drawing,  had  no  subject,  and  the  colourings  were  most 
improbable.  The  drawing  was  so  indefinite  that  you  were 
sometimes  unable  to  make  out  which  way  an  arm  or  a  head 
was  turned.  The  subject  was  generally,  '  effets ' — Effet  de 
brouillard,  Effet  du  soir,  Soleil  coucliant.  There  were  some 
pictures  with  figures,  but  without  subjects. 
"  In  the  colouring,  bright  blue  and  bright  green  predomi 
nated.  And  each  picture  had  its  special  colour,  with  which 
the  whole  picture  was,  as  it  were,  splashed.  For  instance  in 
'  A  Girl  guarding  Geese  '  the  special  colour  is  vert  de  gris,  and 
dots  of  it  were  splashed  about  everywhere :  on  the  face, 
the  hair,  the  hands,  and  the  clothes.  In  the  same  gallery— 
'  Durand  Ruel ' — were  other  pictures,  by  Puvis  de  Chavannes, 
Manet,  Monet,  Renoir,  Sisley — who  are  all  Impressionists. 
One  of  them,  whose  name  I  could  not  make  out, — it  was 
something  like  Redon, — had  painted  a  blue  face  in  profile. 
On  the  whole  face  there  is  only  this  blue  tone,  with  white- 
of-lead.  Pissarro  has  a  water-colour  all  done  in  dots.  In  the 
foreground  is  a  cow  entirely  painted  with  various-coloured 
dots.  The  general  colour  cannot  be  distinguished,  however 
