136  WHAT  IS  ART? 
that  the  dragon  is  speaking.  Wotan  awakens  the  dragon. 
The  same  bass  sounds  are  repeated,  growing  yet  deeper  and 
deeper.  First  the  dragon  says,  "I  want  to  sleep,"  but  after 
wards  he  crawls  out  of  the  cave.  The  dragon  is  represented 
by  two  men  ;  it  is  dressed  in  a  green,  scaly  skin,  waves  a  tail 
at  one  end,  while  at  the  other  it  opens  a  kind  of  crocodile's 
jaw  that  is  fastened  on,  and  from  which  flames  appear.  The 
dragon  (who  is  meant  to  be  dreadful,  and  may  appear  so 
to  five-year-old  children)  speaks  some  words  in  a  terribly 
bass  voice.  This  is  all  so  stupid,  so  like  what  is  done  in  a 
booth  at  a  fair,  that  it  is  surprising  that  people  over  seven 
years  of  age  can  witness  it  seriously ;  yet  thousands  of 
quasi-cultured  people  sit  and  attentively  hear  and  see  it,  and 
are  delighted. 
Siegfried,  with  his  horn,  reappears,  as  does  Mime  also.  In 
the  orchestra  the  sounds  denoting  them  are  emitted,  and 
they  talk  about  whether  Siegfried  does  or  does  not  know 
what  fear  is.  Mime  goes  away,  and  a  scene  commences  which 
is  intended  to  be  most  poetical.  Siegfried,  in  his  tights,  lies 
down  in  a  would-be  beautiful  pose,  and  alternately  keeps 
silent  and  talks  to  himself.  He  ponders,  listens  to  the  song 
of  birds,  and  wishes  to  imitate  them.  For  this  purpose 
he  cuts  a  reed  with  his  sword  and  makes  a  pipe.  The  dawn 
grows  brighter  and  brighter ;  the  birds  sing.  Siegfried  tries 
to  imitate  the  birds.  In  the  orchestra  is  heard  the  imitation 
of  birds,  alternating  with  sounds  corresponding  to  the  words 
he  speaks.  But  Siegfried  does  not  succeed  with  his  pipe- 
playing,  so  he  plays  on  his  horn  instead.  This  scene  is 
unendurable.  Of  music,  i.e.  of  art  serving  as  a  means  to 
transmit  a  state  of  mind  experienced  by  the  author,  there  is 
not  even  a  suggestion.  There  is  something  that  is  absolutely 
unintelligible  musically.  In  a  musical  sense  a  hope  is  con 
tinually  experienced,  followed  by  disappointment,  as  if  a 
musical  thought  were  commenced  only  to  be  broken  off.  If 
there  are  something  like  musical  commencements,  these 
