WHAT  2S  ART?  107 
The  first  method  consists  in  borrowing  whole  subjects,  or 
merely  separate  features,  from  former  works  recognised  by  every 
one  as  being  poetical,  and  in  so  re-shaping  them,  with  sundry 
additions,  that  they  should  have  an  appearance  of  novelty. 
Such  works,  evoking  in  people  of  a  certain  class  memories 
of  artistic  feelings  formerly  experienced,  produce  an  impres 
sion -similar  to  art,  and,  provided  only  that  they  conform  to 
other  needful  conditions,  they  pass  for  art  among  those  who 
seek  for  pleasure  from  art.  Subjects  borrowed  from  previous 
works  of  art  are  usually  called  poetical  subjects.  Objects 
and  people  thus  borrowed  are  called  poetical  objects  and 
people.  Thus,  in  our  circle,  all  sorts  of  legends,  sagas, 
and  ancient  traditions  are  considered  poetical  subjects. 
Among  poetical  people  and  objects  we  reckon  maidens, 
warriors,  shepherds,  hermits,  angels,  devils  of  all  sorts,  moon 
light,  thunder,  mountains,  the  sea,  precipices,  flowers,  long 
hair,  lions,  lambs,  doves,  and  nightingales.  In  general,  all 
those  objects  are  considered  poetical  which  have  been  most 
frequently  used  by  former  artists  in  their  productions. 
Some  forty  years  ago  a  stupid  but  highly  cultured — ay  ant 
beaucoup  d'acquis — lady  (since  deceased)  asked  me  to  listen to  a  novel  written  by  herself.  It  began  with  a  heroine  who, 
in  a  poetic  white  dress,  and  with  poetically  flowing  hair, 
was  reading  poetry  near  some  water  in  a  poetic  wood. 
The  scene  was  in  Russia,  but  suddenly  from  behind  the 
bushes  the  hero  appears,  wearing  a  hat  with  a  feather  a  la 
Guillaume  Tell  (the  book  specially  mentioned  this)  and 
accompanied  by  two  poetical  white  dogs.  The  authoress 
deemed  all  this  highly  poetical,  and  it  might  have  passed 
rnuster  if  only  it  had  not  been  necessary  for  the  hero  to 
speak.  But  as  soon  as  the  gentleman  in  the  hat  a  la 
Guillaume  Tell  began  to  converse  with  the  maiden  in  the 
white  dress,  it  became  obvious  that  the  authoress  had 
nothing  to  say,  but  had  merely  been  moved  by  poetic 
memories  of  other  works,  and  imagined  that  by  ringing  the 
