INTRODUCTION.  xvii 
can  recognise  and  be  touched  by  works  of  art  ?  Certainly 
it  is  !  Just  as  in  ancient  Greece  crowds  assembled  to  hear 
the  poems  of  Homer,  so  to-day  in  Russia,  as  in  many 
countries  and  many  ages,  the  Gospel  parables,  and  much 
else  of  the  highest  art,  are  gladly  heard  by  the  common 
people.  And  this  does  not  refer  to  any  superstitious  use 
of  the  Bible,  but  to  its  use  as  literature. 
Not  only  do  normal,  labouring  country  people  possess  the 
capacity  to  be  infected  by  good  art — "the  epic  of  Genesis, 
folk-legends,  fairy-tales,  folk-songs,  etc.,"  but  they  them 
selves  produce  songs,  stories,  dances,  decorations,  etc., 
which  are  works  of  true  art.  Take  as  examples  the  works  of 
Burns  or  Bunyan,  and  the  peasant  women's  song  mentioned 
by  Tolstoy  in  Chapter  XIV.,  or  some  of  those  melodies  pro 
duced  by  the  negro  slaves  on  the  southern  plantations,  which 
have  touched,  and  still  touch,  many  of  us  with  the  emotions 
felt  by  their  unknown  and  unpaid  composers. 
The  one  great  quality  which  makes  a  work  of  art  truly 
contagious  is  its  sincerity.  If  an  artist  is  really  actuated  by 
a  feeling,  and  is  strongly  impelled  to  communicate  that 
feeling  to  other  people — not  for  money  or  fame,  or  anything 
else,  but  because  he  feels  he  must  share  it — then  he  will  not 
be  satisfied  till  he  has  found  a  clear  way  of  expressing  it. 
And  the  man  who  is  not  borrowing  his  feelings,  but  has 
drawn  what  he  expresses  from  the  depths  of  his  nature, 
is  sure  to  be  original^  for  in  the  same  way  that  no  two 
people  have  exactly  similar  faces  or  forms,  no  two  people 
have  exactly  similar  minds  or  souls. 
That  in  briefest  outline  is  what  Tolstoy  says  about  art, 
considered  apart  from  its  subject-matter.  And  this  is  how 
certain  critics  have  met  it.  They  say  that  when  Tolstoy 
says  the  test  of  art  is  internal,  he  must  mean  that  it  is 
external.  When  he  says  that  country  peasants  have  in  the 
past  appreciated,  and  do  still  appreciate,  works  of  the 
highest  art,  he  means  that  the  way  to  detect  a  work  of 
