INTRODUCTION. 
One  man  feels  that  submission  to  the  authority  of  his 
church,  and  belief  in  all  that  it  teaches  him,  is  good;  another 
is  embued  by  a  sense  of  each  man's  duty  to  think  with  his 
own  head — to  use  for  his  guidance  in  life  the  reason  and 
conscience  given  to  him.  One  man  feels  that  his  nation 
ought  to  wipe  out  in  blood  the  shame  of  a  defeat  inflicted 
on  her;  another  feels  that  we  are  brothers,  sons  of  one 
spirit,  and  that  the  slaughter  of  man  by  man  is  always 
wrong.  One  man  feels  that  the  most  desirable  thing  in 
life  is  the  satisfaction  obtainable  by  the  love  of  women ; 
another  man  feels  that  sex-love  is  an  entanglement  and  a 
snare,  hindering  his  real  work  in  life.  And  each  of  these, 
if  he  possess  an  artist's  gift  of  expression,  and  if  the 
feeling  be  really  his  own  and  sincere,  may  infect  other 
men.  But  some  of  these  feelings  will  benefit  and  some 
will  harm  mankind,  and  the  more  widely  they  are  spread 
the  greater  will  be  their  effect. 
Art  unites  men.  Surely  it  is  desirable  that  the  feelings 
in  which  it  unites  them  should  be  "the  best  and  highest 
to  which  men  have  risen,"  or  at  least  should  not  run 
contrary  to  our  perception  of  what  makes  for  the  well- 
being  of  ourselves  and  of  others.  And  our  perception 
of  what  makes  for  the  well-being  of  ourselves  and  of 
others  is  what  Tolstoy  calls  our  "religious  perception." 
Therefore  the  subject-matter  of  what  we,  in  our  day, 
can  esteem  as  being  the  best  art,  can  be  of  two  kinds 
only — • 
(1)  Feelings   flowing    from    the  highest   perception  now 
attainable  by  man  of  our  right  relation  to  our  neighbour 
and     to     the    Source    from    which    we    come.      Dickens' 
"  Christmas    Carol,"  uniting  us  in  a  more  vivid  sense  of 
compassion  and  love,  is  a  ready  example  of  such  art. 
(2)  The   simple   feelings   of   common  life,  accessible  to 
every  one — provided  that  they  are  such  as  do  not  hinder 
progress  towards  well-being.      Art  of  this  kind  makes  us 
