WHAT  IS  ART?  169 
men  but  very  exceptional,  and  therefore,  to  make  them 
infectious,  the  authors  have  surrounded  them  with  abundant 
details  of  time  and  place.  And  this  abundance  of  detail 
makes  the  stories  difficult  of  comprehension  to  all  people 
not  living  within  reach  of  the  conditions  described  by  the 
author. 
The  author  of  the  novel  of  Joseph  did  not  need  to 
describe  in  detail,  as  would  be  done  nowadays,  the  blood 
stained  coat  of  Joseph,  the  dwelling  and  dress  of  Jacob,  the 
pose  and  attire  of  Potiphar's  wife,  and  how,  adjusting  the 
bracelet  on  her  left  arm,  she  said,  "  Come  to  me,"  and  so  on, 
because  the  subject-matter  of  feelings  in  this  novel  is  so 
strong  that  all  details,  except  the  most  essential, — such  as 
that  Joseph  went  out  into  another  room  to  weep, — are 
superfluous,  and  would  only  hinder  the  transmission  of 
feelings.  And  therefore  this  novel  is  accessible  to  all  men, 
touches  people  of  all  nations  and  classes,  young  and  old, 
and  has  lasted  to  our  times,  and  will  yet  last  for  thousands 
of  years  to  come.  But  strip  the  best  novels  of  our  times  of 
their  details,  and  what  will  remain  ? 
It  is  therefore  impossible  in  modern  literature  to  indicate 
works  fully  satisfying  the  demands  of  universality.  Such 
works  as  exist  are,  to  a  great  extent,  spoilt  by  what  is 
usually  called  "realism,"  but  would  be  better  termed 
"provincialism,"  in  art. 
In  music  the  same  occurs  as  in  verbal  art,  and  for  similar 
reasons.  In  consequence  of  the  poorness  of  the  feeling 
they  contain,  the  melodies  of  the  modern  composers  are 
amazingly  empty  and  insignificant.  And  to  strengthen 
the  impression  produced  by  these  empty  melodies,  the  new 
musicians  pile  complex  modulations  on  to  each  trivial  melody, 
not  only  in  their  own  national  manner,  but  also  in  the  way 
characteristic  of  their  own  exclusive  circle  and  particular 
musical  school.  Melody — every  melody — is  free,  and  may 
be  understood  of  all  men ;  but  as  soon  as  it  is  bound  up 
