WHAT  IS  ART?  157 
have  attained, — an  understanding  denning  the  highest  good,? 
at  which  that  society  aims.     And  this  understanding  is  the  « 
religious  perception  of  the  given  time  and  society.     And  ' 
this  religious  perception  is  ahvays  clearly  expressed  by  some 
advanced  men,  and  more  or  less  vividly  perceived  by  all  the 
members  of  the  society.     Such  a  religious  perception  and  its 
corresponding  expression  exists  always  in  every  society.     If 
it  appears  to  us  that  in  our  society  there  is  no  religious 
perception,  this  is  not  because  there  really  is  none,  but  only 
because  we  do  not  want  to  see  it.     And  we  often  wish  not 
to  see  it  because  it  exposes  the  fact  that  our  life  is  incon 
sistent  with  that  religious  perception. 
Religious  perception  in  a  society  is  like  the  direction  of 
a  flowing  river.  If  the  river  flows  at  all,  it  must  have 
a  direction.  If  a  society  lives,  there  must  be  a  religious 
perception  indicating  the  direction  in  which,  more  or  less 
consciously,  all  its  members  tend. 
And  so  there  always  has  been,  and  there  is,  a  religious 
perception  in  every  society.  And  it  is  by  the  standard  of  -^ 
this  religious  perception  that  the  feelings  transmitted  by  art  ?  1 have  always  been  estimated.  Only  on  the  basis  of  this 
religious  perception  of  their  age  have  men  always  chosen  from 
the  endlessly  varied  spheres  of  art  that  art  which  transmitted 
feelings  making  religious  perception  operative  in  actual  life. 
And  such  art  has  always  been  highly  valued  and  encouraged; 
while  art  transmitting  feelings  already  outlived,  flowing  from 
the  antiquated  religious  perceptions  of  a  former  age,  has 
always  been  condemned  and  despised.  All  the  rest  of  art, 
transmitting  those  most  diverse  feelings  by  means  of  which 
people  commune  together,  was  not  condemned,  and  was 
tolerated,  if  only  it  did  not  transmit  feelings  contrary  to 
religious  perception.  Thus,  for  instance,  among  the  Greeks, 
art  transmitting  the  feeling  of  beauty,  strength,  and  courage 
(Hesiod,  Homer,  Phidias)  was  chosen,  approved,  and  encour 
aged;  while  art  transmitting  feelings  of  rude  sensuality, 
