WHAT  IS  ART?  185 
and  romances  with  which  our  world  teems,  involuntarily 
it  seems  as  if  existing  art  had  but  one  definite  aim — to 
disseminate  vice  as  widely  as  possible. 
Such,  though  not  all,  are  the  most  direct  consequences  of 
that  perversion  of  art  which  has  occurred  in  our  society. 
So  that,  what  in  our  society  is  called  art  not  only  does  not 
conduce  to  the  progress  of  mankind,  but,  more  than  almost 
anything  else,  hinders  the  attainment  of  goodness  in  our 
lives. 
And  therefore  the  question  which  involuntarily  presents 
itself  to  every  man  free  from  artistic  activity  and  therefore 
not  bound  to  existing  art  by  self-interest,  the  question 
asked  by  me  at  the  beginning  of  this  work :  Is  it  just  that 
to  what  we  call  art,  to  a  something  belonging  to  but  a  small 
section  of  society,  should  be  offered  up  such  sacrifices  of 
human  labour,  of  human  lives,  and  of  goodness  as  are  now 
being  offered  up  ?  receives  the  natural  reply  :  No  j  it  is  un 
just,  and  these  things  should  not  be  !  So  also  replies  sound 
sense  and  unperverted  moral  feeling.  Not  only  should 
these  things  not  be,  not  only  should  no  sacrifices  be  offered 
up  to  what  among  us  is  called  art,  but,  on  the  contrary, 
the  efforts  of  those  who  wish  to  live  rightly  should  be 
directed  towards  the  destruction  of  this  art,  for  it  is  one 
of  the  most  cruel  of  the  evils  that  harass  our  section  of 
humanity.  So  that,  were  the  question  put :  Would  it  be 
preferable  for  our  Christian  world  to  be  deprived  of  all 
that  is  now  esteemed  to  be  art,  and,  together  with  the 
false,  to  lose  all  that  is  good  in  it?  I  think  that  every 
reasonable  and  moral  man  would  again  decide  the  question 
as  Plato  decided  it  for  his  Republic,  and  as  all  the  Church 
Christian  and  Mahommedan  teachers  of  mankind  decided 
it,  i.e.  would  say,  "Rather  let  there  be  no  art  at  all  than  <•— 
continue  the  depraving  art,  or  simulation  of  art,  which  now 
exists."  Happily,  no  one  has  to  face  this  question,  and  no 
one  need  adopt  either  solution.  All  that  man  can  do,  and 
