WHAT  IS  ART?  179 
and  praised  for.  In  the  minds  of  peasants  and  children 
the  ground  for  praise  or  eulogy  can  only  be  either  physical 
strength :  Hercules,  the  heroes  and  conquerors ;  or  moral, 
spiritual,  strength :  Sakya  Muni  giving  up  a  beautiful  wife 
and  a  kingdom  to  save  mankind,  Christ  going  to  the 
cross  for  the  truth  he  professed,  and  all  the  martyrs 
and  the  saints.  Both  are  understood  by  peasants  and 
children.  They  understand  that  physical  strength  must  be 
respected,  for  it  compels  respect ;  and  the  moral  strength 
of  goodness  an  unperverted  man  cannot  fail  to  respect, 
because  all  his  spiritual  being  draws  him  towards  it.  But 
these  people,  children  and  peasants,  suddenly  perceive  that 
besides  those  praised,  respected,  and  rewarded  for  physical  or 
moral  strength,  there  are  others  who  are  praised,  extolled, 
and  rewarded  much  more  than  the  heroes  of  strength  and 
virtue,  merely  because  they  sing  well,  compose  verses,  or 
dance.  They  see  that  singers,  composers,  painters,  ballet- 
dancers,  earn  millions  of  roubles  and  receive  more  honour 
than  the  saints  do :  and  peasants  and  children  are  per 
plexed. 
When  50  years  had  elapsed  after  Pushkin's  death,  and, 
simultaneously,  the  cheap  edition  of  his  works  began  to 
circulate  among  the  people  and  a  monument  was  erected  to 
him  in  Moscow,  I  received  more  than  a  dozen  letters  from 
different  peasants  asking  why  Pushkin  was  raised  to  such 
dignity  ?  And  only  the  other  day  a  literate l  man  from 
Saratoff  called  on  me  who  had  evidently  gone  out  of  his 
mind  over  this  very  question.  He  was  on  his  way  to 
Moscow  to  expose  the  clergy  for  having  taken  part  in 
raising  a  "monament"  to  Mr.  Pushkin. 
Indeed  one  need  only  imagine  to  oneself  what  the  state  of 
1  In  Russian  it  is  customary  to  make  a  distinction  between  literate 
and  illiterate  people,  i.e.  between  those  who  can  and  those  who  can 
not  read.  Literate  in  this  sense  does  not  imply  that  the  man  would 
speak  or  write  correctly. — Trans. 
