WHAT  7.9  ART?   •  167 
especially  his  Memoirs  from  the  House  of  Death  :  and  Adam  } 
Bede  by  George  Eliot. 
In  modern  painting,  strange  to  say,  works  of  this  kind, 
directly  transmitting  the  Christian  feeling  of  love  of  God 
and  of  one's  neighbour,  are  hardly  to  be  found,  especially 
among  the  works  of  the  celebrated  painters.  There  are 
plenty  of  pictures  treating  of  the  Gospel  stories ;  they,  how 
ever,  depict  historical  events  with  great  wealth  of  detail,  but 
do  not,  and  cannot,  transmit  religious  feeling  not  possessed 
by  their  painters.  There  are  many  pictures  treating  of  the 
personal  feelings  of  various  people,  but  of  pictures  repre 
senting  great  deeds  of  self-sacrifice  and  of  Christian  love 
there  are  very  few,  and  what  there  are  are  principally  by 
artists  who  are  not  celebrated,  and  are,  for  the  most  part, 
not  pictures  but  merely  sketches.  Such,  for  instance,  is  the 
drawing  by  Kramskoy  (worth  many  of  his  finished  pictures), 
showing  a  drawing-room  with  a  balcony,  past  which  troops 
are  marching  in  triumph  on  their  return  from  the  war.  On 
the  balcony  stands  a  wet-nurse  holding  a  baby  and  a  boj. 
They  are  admiring  the  procession  of  the  troops,  but  the 
mother,  covering  her  face  with  a  handkerchief,  has  fallen 
back  on  the  sofa,  sobbing.  Such  also  is  the  picture  by 
A¥alter  Langley,  to  which  I  have  already  referred,  and  such 
again  is  a  picture  by  the  French  artist  Morion,  depicting 
a  lifeboat  hastening,  in  a  heavy  storm,  to  the  relief  of  a 
steamer  that  is  being  wrecked.  Approaching  these  in  kind 
are  pictures  which  represent  the  hard-working  peasant 
with  respect  and  love.  Such  are  the  pictures  by  Millet, 
and,  particularly,  his  drawing,  "The  Man  with  the  Hoe," 
also  pictures  in  this  style  by  Jules  Breton,  L'Hermitte, 
Defregger,  and  others.  As  examples  of  pictures  evoking 
indignation  and  horror  at  the  violation  of  love  to  God 
and  man,  Gay's  picture,  "  Judgment,"  may  serve,  and  also 
Leizen-Mayer's,  "Signing  the  Death  Warrant."  But  there 
are  also  very  few  of  this  kind.  Anxiety  about  the  technique 
