WHAT  IS  ART?  181 
is  paid  £10,000  for  a  season,  or  that  a  painter  gets  as 
much  for  a  picture,  or  that  authors  of  novels  describing 
love-scenes  have  received  even  more  than  that. 
And  it  is  the  same  with  children.  I  remember  how  I 
passed  through  this  stage  of  amazement  and  stupefaction, 
and  only  reconciled  myself  to  this  exaltation  of  artists 
to  the  level  of  heroes  and  saints  by  lowering  in  my  own 
estimation  the  importance  of  moral  excellence,  and  by 
attributing  a  false,  unnatural  meaning  to  works  of  art.  And 
a  similar  confusion  must  occur  in  the  soul  of  each  child 
and  each  man  of  the  people  when  he  learns  of  the  strange 
honours  and  rewards  that  are  lavished  on  artists.  This  is 
the  third  consequence  of  the  false  relation  in  which  our 
society  stands  towards  art. 
The  fourth  consequence  is  that  people  of  the  upper 
classes,  more  and  more  frequently  encountering  the  contra 
dictions  between  beauty  and  goodness,  put  the  ideal  of 
beauty  first,  thus  freeing  themselves  from  the  demands 
of  morality.  These  people,  reversing  the  roles,  instead  of 
admitting,  as  is  really  the  case,  that  the  art  they  serve  is 
an  antiquated  affair,  allege  that  morality  is  an  antiquated 
affair,  which  can  have  no  importance  for  people  situated  on 
that  high  plane  of  development  on  which  they  opine  that 
they  are  situated. 
This  result  of  the  false  relation  to  art  showed  itself  in 
our  society  long  ago  ;  but  recently,  with  its  prophet  Nietzsche 
and  his  adherents,  and  with  the  decadents  and  certain 
English  aesthetes  who  coincide  with  him,  it  is  being 
expressed  with  especial  impudence.  The  decadents,  and 
aesthetes  of  the  type  at  one  time  represented  by  Oscar  Wilde, 
select  as  a  theme  for  their  productions  the  denial  of  morality 
and  the  laudation  of  vice. 
This  art  has  partly  generated,  and  partly  coincides  with, 
a  similar  philosophic  theory.  I  recently  received  from 
America  a  book  entitled  "  The  Survival  of  the  Fittest : 
