WHAT  IS  ART?  189 
clearly  recognised  by  man,  and  even  in  our  perverted  society 
is  more  and  more  often  partially  expressed  by  science  and 
by  art.  During  the  present  century  works  of  the  higher 
kind  of  religious  art  have  appeared  more  and  more  fre 
quently,  both  in  literature  and  in  painting,  permeated  by  a 
truly  Christian  spirit,  as  also  works  of  the  universal  art 
of  common  life,  accessible  to  all.  So  that  even  art  knows 
the  true  ideal  of  our  times,  and  tends  towards  it.  On 
the  one  hand,  the  best  works  of  art  of  our  times  transmit 
religious  feelings  urging  towards  the  union  and  the  brother 
hood  of  man  (such  are  the  works  of  Dickens,  Hugo, 
Dostoievsky;  and  in  painting,  of  Millet,  Bastien  Lepage, 
Jules  Breton,  L'Hermitte,  and  others) ;  on  the  other  hand, they  strive  towards  the  transmission,  not  of  feelings  which 
are  natural  to  people  of  the  upper  classes  only,  but  of  such 
feelings  as  may  unite  everyone  without  exception.  There 
are  as  yet  few  such  works,  but  the  need  of  them  is  already 
acknowledged.  In  recent  times  we  also  meet  more  and  more 
frequently  with  attempts  at  publications,  pictures,  concerts, 
and  theatres  for  the  people.  All  this  is  still  very  far  from 
accomplishing  what  should  be  done,  but  already  the  direction 
in  which  good  art  instinctively  presses  forward  to  regain 
the  path  natural  to  it  can  be  discerned. 
The  religious  perception  of  our  time — which  consists  in 
acknowledging  that  the  aim  of  life  (both  collective  and 
individual)  is  the  union  of  mankind — is  already  so  suffi 
ciently  distinct  that  people  have  now  only  to  reject  the  false 
theory  of  beauty,  according  to  which  enjoyment  is  considered 
to  be  the  purpose  of  art,  and  religious  perception  will 
naturally  takes  its  place  as  the  guide  of  the  art  of  our  time. 
And  as  soon  as  the  ''religious  perception,  which  already 
unconsciously  directs  the"  life  of  man,  is  consciously  acknow ledged,  then  immediately  and  :iaturally  the  division  of 
art,  into  art  for  the  lower  and  art  for  the  upper  classes, 
will  disappear.  There  Avill  be  one  common,  brotherly, 
