xviii  INTRODUCTION. 
art  is  to  see  what  is  apparently  most  popular  among  the 
masses.  Go  into  the  streets  or  music-halls  of  the  cities  in 
any  particular  country  and  year,  and  observe  what  is  most 
frequently  sung,  shouted,  or  played  on  the  barrel-organs. 
It  may  happen  to  be 
"  Tarara-boom-deay," or, 
"  We  don't  want  to  fight, 
But,  by  Jingo,  if  we  do." 
But  whatever  it  is,  you  may  at  once  declare  these  songs  to 
be  the  highest  musical  art,  without  even  pausing  to  ask  to 
what  they  owe  their  vogue — what  actress,  or  singer,  or 
politician,  or  wave  of  patriotic  passion  has  conduced  to 
their  popularity.  Nor  need  you  consider  whether  that 
popularity  is  not  merely  temporary  and  local.  Tolstoy 
has  said  that  works  of  the  highest  art  are  understood  by 
unperverted  country  peasants — and  here  are  things  which 
are  popular  with  the  mob,  ergo,  these  things  must  be  the 
highest  art. 
The  critics  then  proceed  to  say  that  such  a  test  is  utterly 
absurd.  And  on  this  point  I  am  able  to  agree  with  the  critics. 
Some  of  these  writers  commence  their  articles  by  saying 
that  Tolstoy  is  a  most  profound  thinker,  a  great  prophet, 
an  intellectual  force,  etc.  Yet  when  Tolstoy,  in  his  em 
phatic  way,  makes  the  sweeping  remark  that  "good  art 
always  pleases  every  one,"  the  critics  do  not  read  on  to 
find  out  what  he  means,  but  reply:  "No!  good  art  does 
not  please  every  one ;  some  people  are  colour-blind,  and 
some  are  deaf,  or  have  no  ear  for  music." 
It  is  as  though  a  man  strenuously  arguing  a  point  were  to 
say,  "  Every  one  knows  that  two  and  two  make  four,"  and 
a  boy  who  did  not  at  all  see  what  the  speaker  was  driving 
at,  were  to  reply :  "  No,  our  new-born  baby  doesn't  know 
it ! "  It  would  distract  attention  from  the  subject  in  hand, but  it  would  not  elucidate  matters. 
