xxiv  INTRODUCTION. 
satisfied  their  forefathers,  the  outward  and  visible  signs  of 
which  are  still  endowed  and  dominant  long  after  their  spirit 
has  taken  refuge  in  temples  not  made  with  hands. 
At  such  times  it  is  difficult  for  men  to  understand  each 
other,  for  the  very  words  needed  to  express  the  deepest 
experiences  of  men's  consciousness  mean  different  things  to 
different  men.  So  among  us  to-day,  to  many  minds  faith 
means  credulity^  and  God  suggests  a  person  of  the  male 
sex,  father  of  one  only-begotten  son,  and  creator  of  the 
universe. 
This  is  why  Tolstoy's  clear  and  rational  "  religious  per 
ception,"  expressed  in  the  books  named  on  a  previous  page, 
is  frequently  spoken  of  by  people  who  have  not  grasped  it, 
as  "  mysticism." 
The  narrow  materialist  is  shocked  to  find  that  Tolstoy 
will  not  confine  himself  to  the  "objective"  view  of  life. 
Encountering  in  himself  that  "inner  voice"  which  compels 
us  all  to  choose  between  good  and  evil,  Tolstoy  refuses  to  be 
diverted  from  a  matter  which  is  of  immediate  and  vital 
importance  to  him,  by  discussions  as  to  the  derivation  of 
the  external  manifestations  of  conscience  which  biologists 
are  able  to  detect  in  remote  forms  of  life.  The  real  mystic, 
on  the  other  hand,  shrinks  from  Tolstoy's  desire  to  try  all 
things  by  the  light  of  reason,  to  depend  on  nothing  vague, 
and  to  accept  nothing  on  authority.  The  man  who  does 
not  trust  his  own  reason,  fears  that  life  thus  squarely  faced 
will  prove  less  worth  having  than  it  is  when  clothed  in 
mist. 
In  this  work,  however,  Tolstoy  does  not  recapitulate  at 
length  what  he  has  said  before.  He  does  not  pause  to 
re-explain  why  he  condemns  Patriotism — i.e.,  each  man's 
preference  for  the  predominance  of  his  own  country,  which 
leads  to  the  murder  of  man  by  man  in  war ;  or  Churches, 
which  are  sectarian — i.e.,  which  striving'  to  assert  that  your doxy  is  heterodoxy,  but  that  our  doxy  is  orthodoxy,  make 
