WHAT  IS  ART?  171 
less  universal,— still,  in  painting,  more  than  in  the  other 
spheres  of  art,  may  be  found  works  satisfying  the  demands 
of  universal  Christian  art;  that  is  to  say,  there  are  more 
works  expressing  feelings  in  which  all  men  may  participate. 
In  the  arts  of  painting  and  sculpture,  all  pictures  and 
statues  in  so-called  genre  style,  depictions  of  animals, 
landscapes  and  caricatures  with  subjects  comprehensible 
to  everyone,  and  also  all  kinds  of  ornaments,  are  universal 
in  subject-matter.  Such  productions  in  painting  and 
sculpture  are  very  numerous  (e.0.  china  dolls),  but  for 
the  most  part  such  objects  (for  instance,  ornaments  of  all 
kinds)  are  either  not  considered  to  be  art  or  are.  con 
sidered  to  be  art  of  a  low  quality.  In  reality  all  such 
objects,  if  only  they  transmit  a  true  feeling  experienced 
by  the  artist  and  comprehensible  to  everyone  (however 
insignificant  it  may  seem  to  us  to  be)  are  works  of  real, 
good,  Christian  art. 
I  fear  it  will  here  be  urged  against  me  that  having  denied 
that  the  conception  of  beauty  can  supply  a  standard  for 
works  of  art,  I  contradict  myself  by  acknowledging  orna 
ments  to  be  works  of  good  art.  The  reproach  is  unjust,  for 
the  subject-matter  of  all  kinds  of  ornamentation  consists  not 
in  the  beauty,  but  in  the  feeling  (of  admiration  of,  and 
delight  in,  the  combination  of  lines  and  colours)  which  the 
artist  has  experienced  and  with  which  he  infects  the 
spectator.  Art  remains  what  it  was  and  what  it  must  be  : 
nothing  but  the  infection  by  one  man  of  another,  or  of 
others,  with  the  feelings  experienced  by  the  infectur. 
Among  those  feelings  is  the  feeling  of  delight  at  what 
pleases  the  sight.  Objects  pleasing  the  sight  may  be  such 
as  please  a  small  or  a  large  number  of  people,  or  such  as 
please  all  men.  And  ornaments  for  the  most  part  are  of 
the  latter  kind.  A  landscape  representing  a  very  unusual 
view,  or  a  genre  picture  of  a  special  subject,  may  not 
please  everyone,  but  ornaments,  from  Yakutsk  ornaments  to 
