INTRODUCTION.  xxiii 
realise  to  how  great  an  extent  we  already  are  members 
one  of  another — sharing  the  feelings  of  one  common  human 
nature. 
The  success  of  a  very  primitive  novel — the  story  of 
Joseph,  which  made  its  way  into  the  sacred  books  of  the 
Jews,  spread  from  land  to  land  and  from  age  to  age,  and 
continues  to  be  read  to-day  among  people  quite  free  from 
bibliolatry — shows  how  nearly  "  universal "  may  be  the 
appeal  of  this  kind  of  art.  This  branch  includes  all 
harmless  jokes,  folk-stories,  nursery  rhymes,  and  even  dolls, 
if  only  the  author  or  designer  has  expressed  a  feeling 
(tenderness,  pleasure,  humour,  or  what  not)  so  as  to  infect 
others. 
But  how  are  we  to  know  what  are  the  "  best "  feelings  ? 
What  is  good?  and  what  is  evil?  This  is  decided  by 
"religious  perception."  Some  such  perception  exists  in 
every  human  being;  there  is  always  something  he  approves 
of,  and  something  he  disapproves  of.  Reason  and  con 
science  are  always  present,  active  or  latent,  as  long  as 
man  lives.  Miss  Flora  Shaw  tells  that  the  most  degraded 
cannibal  she  ever  met,  drew  the  line  at  eating  his  own 
mother — nothing  would  induce  him  to  entertain  the  thought, 
his  moral  sense  was  revolted  by  the  suggestion.  In  most 
societies  the  "  religious  perception,"  to  which  they  have 
advanced, — the  foremost  stage  in  mankind's  long  march 
towards  perfection,  which  has  been  discerned, — has  been 
clearly  expressed  by  some  one,  and  more  or  less  con 
sciously  accepted  as  an  ideal  by  the  many.  But  there 
are  transition  periods  in  history  when  the  worn-out  for 
mularies  of  a  past  age  have  ceased  to  satisfy  men,  or 
have  become  so  incrusted  with  superstitions  that  their 
original  brightness  is  lost.  The  ''religious  perception" 
that  is  dawning  may  not  yet  have  found  such  expression  as 
to  be  generally  understood,  but  for  all  that  it  exists,  and 
shows  itself  by  compelling  men  to  repudiate  beliefs  that 
