1 82  WHAT  IS  ART? 
Philosophy  of  Power,  1896,  by  Ragnar  Redbeard,  Chicago." 
The  substance  of  this  book,  as  it  is  expressed  in  the  editor's 
preface,  is  that  to  measure  "  right "  by  the  false  philosophy 
of  the  Hebrew  prophets  and  "  weepful "  Messiahs  is  mad 
ness.  Right  is  not  the  offspring  of  doctrine  but  of  power. 
All  laws,  commandments,  or  doctrines  as  to  not  doing  to 
another  Avhat  you  do  not  wish  done  to  you,  have  no 
inherent  authority  whatever,  but  receive  it  only  from 
the  club}  the  gallows,  and  the  sword.  A  man  truly  free 
is  under  no  obligation  to  obey  any  injunction,  human  or 
divine.  Obedience  is  the  sign  of  the  degenerate.)  Dis 
obedience  is  the  stamp  of  the  hero.  Men  should  not  be 
bound  by  moral  rules  invented  by  their  foes.  The  whole 
world  is  a  slippery  battlefield.  Ideal  justice  demands 
that  the  vanquished  should  be  exploited,  emasculated,  and 
scorned.  The  free  and  brave  may  seize  the  world.  And, 
therefore,  there  should  be  eternal  war  for  life,  for  land, 
for  love,  for  women,  for  power,  and  for  gold.  (Something 
similar  was  said  a  few  years  ago  by  the  celebrated  and 
refined  academician,  Vogue*. )  The  earth  and  its  treasures  is 
"  booty  for  the  bold. "V> 
The  author  has  evidently  by  himself,  independently  of 
Nietzsche,  come  to  the  same  conclusions  which  are  professed 
by  the  new  artists. 
Expressed  in  the  form  of  a  doctrine  these  positions  startle 
us.  In  reality  they  are  implied  in  the  ideal  of  art  serving 
beauty.  The  art  of  our  upper  classes  has  educated  people 
in  this  ideal  of  the  over-man,1 — which  is,  in  reality,  the 
old  ideal  of  Nero,  Stenka  Razin,2  Genghis  Khan,  Robert 
1  The  over-man  (Uebermensch),  in  the  Nietzschean  philosophy,  is 
that  superior  type  of  man  whom  the  struggle  for  existence  is  to  evolve, 
and  who  will  seek  only  his  own  power  and  pleasure,  will  know  nothing 
of  pity,  and  will  have  the  right,  because  he  will  possess  the  power,  to 
make  ordinary  people  serve  him. — Trans. 
2  Stenka  Razin  was  by  origin  a  common  Cossack.     His  brother  was 
