1 84    }  WHAT  IS  ART? 
poetry  of  prayers,  hymns,  painting,  by  the  sculpture  of 
images  and  of  statues,  by  singing,  by  organs,  by  music,  by 
architecture,  and  even  by  dramatic  art  in  religious  ceremonies. 
Patriotic  superstitions  are  supported  and  produced  by  verses 
and  stories,  which  are  supplied  even  in  schools,  by  music, 
by  songs,  by  triumphal  processions,  by  royal  meetings,  by 
martial  pictures,  and  by  monuments. 
Were  it  not  for  this  continual  activity  in  all  departments 
of  art,  perpetuating  the  ecclesiastical  and  patriotic  intoxica 
tion  and  embitterment  of  the  people,  the  masses  would 
long  ere  this  have  attained  to  true  enlightenment. 
But  it  is  not  only  in  Church  matters  and  patriotic 
matters  that  art  depraves ;  it  is  art  in  our  time  that  serves 
as  the  chief  cause  of  the  perversion  of  people  in  the  most 
important  question  of  social  life — in  their  sexual  relations. 
We  nearly  all  know  by  our  own  experience,  and  those  who 
are  fathers  and  mothers  know  in  the  case  of  their  grown-up 
children  also,  what  fearful  mental  and  physical  suffering, 
what  useless  waste  of  strength,  people  suffer  merely  as  a 
consequence  of  dissoluteness  in  sexual  desire. 
Since  the  world  began,  since  the  Trojan  war,  which 
sprang  from  that  same  sexual  dissoluteness,  down  to  and 
including  the  suicides  and  murders  of  lovers  described  in 
almost  every  newspaper,  a  great  proportion  of  the  sufferings 
of  the  human  race  have  come  from  this  source. 
And  what  is  art  doing  ?  All  art,  real  and  counterfeit,  with 
very  few  exceptions,  is  devoted  to  describing,  depicting,  and 
inflaming  sexual  love  in  every  shape  and  form.  When  one 
remembers  all  those  novels  and  their  lust-kindling  descrip 
tions  of  love,  from  the  most  refined  to  the  grossest,  with 
which  the  literature  of  our  society  overflows;  if  one. only 
remembers  all  those  pictures  and  statues  representing 
women's  naked  bodies,  and  all  sorts  of  abominations  which 
are  reproduced  in  illustrations  and  advertisements ;  if  one 
only  remembers  all  the  filthy  operas  and  operettas,  songs 
