158  WHAT  IS  ART? 
despondency,  and  effeminacy  was  condemned  and  despised. 
Among  the  Jews,  art  transmitting  feelings  of  devotion  and 
submission  to  the  God  of  the  Hebrews  and  to  His  will  (the 
epic  of  Genesis,  the  prophets,  the  Psalms)  was  chosen  and 
encouraged,  while  art  transmitting  feelings  of  idolatry  (the 
golden  calf)  was  condemned  and  despised.  All  the  rest  of 
art — stories,  songs,  dances,  ornamentation  of  houses,  of 
utensils,  and  of  clothes — which  was  not  contrary  to  religious 
perception,  was  neither  distinguished  nor  discussed.  Thus, 
in  regard  to  its  subject-matter,  has  art  been  appraised  always 
and  everywhere,  and  thus  it  should  be  appraised,  for  this 
attitude  towards  art  proceeds  from  the  fundamental  charac 
teristics  of  human  nature,  and  those  characteristics  do  not 
change. 
I  know  that  according  to  an  opinion  current  in  our  times, 
religion  is  a  superstition,  which  humanity  has  outgrown,  and 
that  it  is  therefore  assumed  that  no  such  thing  exists  as  a 
religious  perception  common  to  us  all  by  which  art,  in  our 
time,  can  be  estimated.  I  know  that  this  is  the  opinion 
current  in  the  pseudo-cultured  circles  of  to-day.  People 
who  do  not  acknowledge  Christianity  in  its  true  meaning 
because  it  undermines  all  their  social  privileges,  and  who, 
therefore,  invent  all  kinds  of  philosophic  and  aesthetic  theories 
to  hide  from  themselves  the  meaninglessness  and  wrongness 
of  their  lives,  cannot  think  otherwise.  These  people  inten 
tionally,  or  sometimes  unintentionally,  confusing  the  con 
ception  of  a  religious  cult  with  the  conception  of  religious 
perception,  think  that  by  denying  the  cult  they  get  rid  of 
religious  perception.  But  even  the  very  attacks  on  religion, 
and  the  attempts  to  establish  a  life-conception  contrary  to 
the  religious  perception  of  our  times,  most  clearly  demon 
strate  the  existence  of  a  religious  perception  condemning 
the  lives  that  are  not  in  harmony  with  it. 
If  humanity  progresses,  i.e.  moves  forward,  there  must 
inevitably  be  a  guide  to  the  direction  of  that  movement. 
