INTRODUCTION.  xxiii 
human  nature  to  be  infringed  by  such  differences  or 
local  circumstance.  Whatever  those  circumstances  may 
be,  the  fact  remains  that  in  proportion  as  a  man  approaches 
towards  the  condition  not  only  of  "  earning  his  subsistence 
by  some  kind  of  labour,"  but  of  "living  on  all  its  sides 
the  life  natural  and  proper  to  mankind,"  his  capacity  to 
appreciate  true  art  tends  to  increase.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  a  class  settles  down  into  an  artificial  way  of  life, — 
loses  touch  with  nature,  becomes  confused  in  its  perceptions 
of  what  is  good  and  what  is  bad,  and  prefers  the  condition 
of  a  parasite  to  that  of  a  producer, — its  capacity  to  appre 
ciate  true  art  must  diminish.  Having  lost  all  clear  perception 
of  the  meaning  of  life,  such  people  are  necessarily  left 
without  any  criterion  which  will  enable  them  to  distinguish 
good  from  bad  art,  and  they  are  sure  to  follow  eagerly  after 
beauty,  or  "that  which  pleases  them." 
The  artists  of  our  society  can  usually  only  reach 
people  of  the  upper  and  middle  classes.  But  who  is  the 
great  artist? — he  who  delights  a  select  audience  of  his 
own  day  and  class,  or  he  whose  works  link  generation  to 
generation  and  race  to  race  in  a  common  bond  of  feeling  ?• 
Surely  art  should  fulfil  its  purpose  as  completely  as  possible. 
A  work  of  art  that  united  every  one  with  the  author, 
and  with  one  another,  would  be  perfect  art.  Tolstoy,  in 
his  emphatic  way,  speaks  of  works  of  "universal"  art, 
and  (though  the  profound  critics  hasten  to  inform  us  that 
no  work  of  art  ever  reached  everybody)  certainly  the 
more  nearly  a  work  of  art  approaches  to  such  ex 
pression  of  feeling  that  every  one  may  be  infected  by  it 
— the  nearer  (apart  from  all  question  of  subject-matter) 
it  approaches  perfection. 
But  now  as  to  subject-matter.  The  subject-matter  of  art 
consists  of  feelings  which  can  be  spread  from  man  to  man, 
feelings  which  are  "  contagious  "  or  "infectious."  Is  it  of  no- 
importance  what  feelings  increase  and  multiply  among  men  ? 
