WHAT  IS  ART?  163 
cling  desperately  to  the  old  art.  But  this  old  art,  having 
no  longer,  in  our  day,  any  source  in  religious  perception, 
has  lost  its  meaning,  and  we  shall  have  to  abandon  it 
whether  we  wish  to  or  not. 
The  essence  of  the  Christian  perception  consists  in  the 
recognition  by  every  man  of  his  sonship  to  God,  and  of  the 
consequent  union  of  men  with  God  and  with  one  another, 
as  is  said  in  the  Gospel  (John  xvii.  21 l).  Therefore  the 
subject-matter  of  Christian  art  is  such  feeling  as  can  unite  J, 
men  with  God  and  with  one  another. 
The  expression  unite  men  idtli  God  and  with  one 
another  may  seem  obscure  to  people  accustomed  to  the 
misuse  of  these  words  which  is  so  customary,  but  the  words 
have  a  perfectly  clear  meaning  nevertheless.  They  indicate 
that  the  Christian  union  of  man  (in  contradiction  to  the 
partial,  exclusive  union  of  only  some  men)  is  that  which 
unites  all  without  exception. 
Art,    all    art,    has    this    characteristic,     that    it    unites 
people.       Every    art    causes   those   to    whom    the    artist's 
feeling  is  transmitted  to  unite  in  soul  with  the  artist,  and 
also  with  all  who  receive  the  same  impression.     But  non- 
Christian  art,  while  uniting  some  people  together,  makes 
tli at  very  union  a  cause  of  separation  between  these  united 
people  and  others;  so  that  union  of  this  kind  is  often  a    ^ 
source,  not  only  of  division,   but  even  of  enmity  towards  1 
others.     Such  is  all  patriotic  art,  with  its  anthems,  poems,  \ 
and  monuments;   such  is  all    Church  art,  i.e.  the    art    of 
certain   cults,  with  their  images,  statues,   processions,   and 
other    local    ceremonies.     Such    art    is    belated    and    non- 
Christian   art,    uniting   the    people    of    one   cult    only    to 
separate  them  yet  more  sharply  from  the  members  of  other  - 
cults,  and  even  to  place  them  in  relations  of  hostility  to 
each  other.     Christian  art  is  only  such  as  tends  to  unite  all 
1  "That  they  may  be  one  ;  even  as  thou,  Father,  art  in  me,  and  L 
in  thee,  that  they  also  may  be  in  us." 
