WHAT  IS  ART?  173 
merits  of  works  of  art.  And  this  criterion,  coinciding 
with  the  indications  of  plain  and  sane  sense,  indubitably 
shows  me  that  that  symphony  by  Beethoven  is  not  a 
good  work  of  art.  Of  course,  to  people  educated  in  the 
adoration  of  certain  productions  and  of  their  authors,  to 
people  whose  taste  has  been  perverted  just  by  being  educated 
in  such  adoration,  the  acknowledgment  that  such  a  cele 
brated  work  is  bad  is  amazing  and  strange.  But  how  are 
we  to  escape  the  indications  of  reason  and  of  common  sense  ? 
Beethoven's  Ninth  Symphony  is  considered  a  great  work 
of  art.  To  verify  its  claim  to  be  such,  I  must  first  ask  myself 
whether  this  work  transmits  the  highest  religious  feeling? 
I  reply  in  the  negative,  for  music  in  itself  cannot  transmit 
those  feelings ;  and  therefore  I  ask  myself  next,  Since  this 
work  does  not  belong  to  the  highest  kind  of  religious  art, 
has  it  the  other  characteristic  of  the  good  art  of  our  time, — 
the  quality  of  uniting  all  men  in  one  common  feeling : 
does  it  rank  as  Christian  universal  art  1  And  again  I  have 
no  option  but  to  reply  in  the  negative ;  for  not  only  do  I 
not  see  how  the  feelings  transmitted  by  this  work  could 
unite  people  not  specially  trained  to  submit  themselves  to 
its  complex  hypnotism,  but  I  am  unable  to  imagine  to 
myself  a  crowd  of  normal  people  who  could  understand 
anything  of  this  long,  confused,  and  artificial  production, 
except  short  snatches  which  are  lost  in  a  sea  of  what  is 
incomprehensible.  And  therefore,  whether  I  like  it  or  not,  I 
am  compelled  to  conclude  that  this  work  belongs  to  the 
rank  of  bad  art.  It  is  curious  to  note  in  this  connection, 
that  attached  to  the  end  of  this  very  symphony  is  a  poem 
of  Schiller's  which  (though  somewhat  obscurely)  expresses 
this  very  thought,  namely,  that  feeling  (Schiller  speaks 
only  of  the  feeling  of  gladness)  unites  people  and  evokes 
love  in  them.  But  though  this  poem  is  sung  at  the  end  of 
the  symphony,  the  music  does  not  accord  with  the  thought 
expressed  in  the  verses ;  for  the  music  is  exclusive  and  does 
