INTRODUCTION.  xix 
There  is,  of  course,  a  verbal  contradiction  between  the 
statements  that  "good  art  always  pleases  every  one" 
(p.  100),  and  the  remark  concerning  "people  of  our 
circle,"  who,  "  with  very  few  exceptions,  artists  and  public 
and  critics,  .  .  .  cannot  distinguish  true  works  of  art 
from  counterfeits,  but  continually  mistake  for  real  art  the 
worst  and  most  artificial"  (p.  151).  But  I  venture  to  think 
that  any  one  of  intelligence,  and  free  from  prejudice,  read 
ing  this  book  carefully,  need  not  fail  to  reach  the  author's 
meaning. 
A  point  to  be  carefully  noted  is  the  distinction  between 
science  and  art.  "Science  investigates  and  brings  to 
human  perception  such  truths  and  such  knowledge  as 
the  people  of  a  given  time  and  society  consider  most 
important.  Art  transmits  these  truths  from  the  region 
of  perception  to  the  region  of -emotion"  (p.  102).  Science 
is  an  "activity  of  the  understanding  which  demands 
preparation  and  a  certain  sequence  of  knowledge,  so  that 
one  cannot  learn  trigonometry  before  knowing  geometry." 
"The  business  of  art,"  on  the  other  hand,  "lies  just  in 
this — to  make  that  understood  and  felt  which,  in  the 
form  of  an  argument,  might  be  incomprehensible  and 
inaccessible"  (p.  102).  It  "infects  any  man  whatever  his 
plane  of  development,"  and  "the  hindrance  to  under 
standing  the  best  and  highest  feelings  (as  is  said  in  the 
gospel)  does  not  at  all  lie  in  deficiency  of  development 
or  learning,  but,  on  the  contrary,  in  false  development 
and  false  learning"  (pp.  102,  103).  Science  and  art  are 
frequently  blended  in  one  work — e.g.,  in  the  gospel  elucida 
tion  of  Christ's  comprehension  of  life,  or,  to  take  a  modern 
instance,  in  Henry  George's  elucidation  of  the  land  question in  Progress  and  Poverty. 
The  class  distinction  to  which  Tolstoy  repeatedly  alludes 
needs  some  explanation.  The  position  of  the  lower  classes 
in  England  and  in  Russia  is  different.  In  Russia  a  much 
