1 64  WHAT  IS  ART? 
without  exception,  either  by  evoking  in  them  the  percep 
tion  that  each  man  and  all  men  stand  in  like  relation 
towards  God  and  towards  their  neighbour,  or  by  evoking  in 
them  identical  feelings,  which  may  even  be  the  very  simplest 
provided  only  that  they  are  not  repugnant  to  Christianity 
and  are  natural  to  every^ne_jgii^xmt-exc£gition. 
Good  Christian  art  of  our  time  may  be  unintelligible  to 
people  because  of  imperfections  in  its  form,  or  because  men 
are  inattentive  to  it,  but  it  must  be  such  that  all  men  can 
experience  the  feelings  it  transmits.  It  must  be  the  art, 
not  of  some  one  group  of  people,  nor  of  one  class,  nor  of 
one  nationality,  nor  of  one  religious  cult ;  that  is,  it  must 
not  transmit  feelings  which  are  accessible  only  to  a  man 
educated  in  a  certain  way,  or  only  to  an  aristocrat,  or  a 
merchant,  or  only  to  a  Kussian,  or  a  native  of  Japan, 
or  a  Roman  Catholic,  or  a  Buddhist,  etc.,  but  it  must 
transmit  feelings  accessible  to  everyone.  Only  art  of 
this  kind  can  be  acknowledged  in  our  time  to  be  good 
art,  worthy  of  being  chosen  out  from  all  the  rest  of  art 
and  encouraged. 
Christian  art,  i.e.  the  art  of  our  time,  should  be  catholic 
J.n  the  original  meaning  of  the  word,  i.e.  universal,  and 
^  therefore  it  should  unite  all  men.  And  only  two  kinds 
[  /of  feeling  do  unite  all  men :  first,  feelings  flowing  from  the 
[perception  of  our  sonship  to  God  and  of  the  brotherhood 
I  of  man ;  and  next,  the  simple  feelings  of  common  life, 
!  accessible  to  everyone  without  exception  —  such  as  the 
feeling  of  merriment,  of  pity,  of  cheerfulness,  of  tran 
quillity,  etc.  Only  these  two  kinds  of  feelings  can  now 
supply  material  for  art  good  in  its  subject-matter. 
And  the  action  of  these  two  kinds  of  art,  apparently  so 
dissimilar,  is  one  and  the  same.  The  feelings  flowing  from 
perception  of  our  sonship  to  God  and  of  the  brotherhood 
of  man — such  as  a  feeling  of  sureness  in  truth,  devotion  to 
the  will  of  God,  self-sacrifice,  respect  for  and  love  of  man — 
