1 72  WHAT  IS  ART? 
Greek  ones,  are  intelligible  to  everyone  and  evoke  a  similar 
feeling  of    admiration  in  all,   and    therefore  this    despised 
kind  of  art  should,  in  Christian  society,  be  esteemed   far 
above  exceptional,  pretentious  pictures  and  sculptures. 
So  that  there  are  only  two  kinds  of  good  Christian  art : 
•  all  the  rest  of  art  not  comprised  in  these  two  divisions 
should  be  acknowledged  to  be  bad  art,  deserving  not  to  be 
encouraged  but  to  be  driven  out,  denied  and  despised,  as 
Nbeing  art  not  uniting  but  dividing  people.  Such,  in  literary 
art,  are  all  novels  and  poems  which  transmit  Church  or 
patriotic  feelings,  and  also  exclusive  feelings  pertaining  only 
to  the  class  of  the  idle  rich;  such  as  aristocratic  honour, 
satiety,  spleen,  pessimism,  and  refined  and  vicious  feelings 
flowing  from  sex-love — quite  incomprehensible  to  the  great 
majority  of  mankind. 
In  painting  we  must  similarly  place  in  the  class  of  bad 
art  all  the  Church,  patriotic,  and  exclusive  pictures;  all 
the  pictures  representing  the  amusements  and  allurements 
of  a  rich  and  idle  life ;  all  the  so-called  symbolic  pictures,  in 
which  the  very  meaning  of  the  symbol  is  comprehensible 
only  to  the  people  of  a  certain  circle ;  and,  above  all,  pictures 
with  voluptuous  subjects  —  all  that  odious  female  nudity 
which  fills  all  the  exhibitions  and  galleries.  And  to  this 
class  belongs  almost  all  the  chamber  and  opera  music  of  our 
times, — beginning  especially  from  Beethoven  (Schumann, 
Berlioz,  Liszt,  Wagner), — by  its  subject-matter  devoted  to 
the  expression  of  feelings  accessible  only  to  people  who 
have  developed  in  themselves  an  unhealthy,  nervous  irrita 
tion  evoked  by  this  exclusive,  artificial,  and  complex 
music. 
"  What !  the  Ninth  Symphony  not  a  good  work  of  art ! " 
I  hear  exclaimed  by  indignant  voices. 
And  I  reply :  Most  certainly  it  is  not.  All  that  I  have 
written  I  have  written  with  the  sole  purpose  of  finding 
a  clear  and  reasonable  criterion  by  which  to  judge  the 
