i go  WHAT  IS  ART? 
universal  art ;  and  first,  that  art  will  naturally  be  rejected 
which  transmits  feelings  incompatible  with  the  religious 
perception  of  our  time, — feelings  which  do  not  unite,  but 
divide  men, — and  then  that  insignificant,  exclusive  art  will 
be  rejected  to  which  an  importance  is  now  attached  to  which 
it  has  no  right. 
And  as  soon  as  this  occurs,  art  will  immediately  cease  to 
be,  what  it  has  been  in  recent  times :  a  means  of  making 
people  coarser  and  more  vicious,  and  it  will  become,  what 
it  always  used  to  be  and  should  be,  a  means  by  which 
humanity  progresses  towards  unity  and  blessedness. 
Strange  as  the  comparison  may  sound,  what  has  happened 
to  the  art  of  our  circle  and  time  is  what  happens  to  a  woman 
who  sells  her  womanly  attractiveness,  intended  for  maternity, 
for  the  pleasure  of  those  who  desire  such  pleasures. 
The  art  of  our  time  and  of  our  circle  has  become  a  (pros 
titute;  And  this  comparison  holds  good  even  in  minute 
details.  Like  her  it  is  not  limited  to  certain  times,  like  her 
it  is  always  adorned,  like  her  it  is  always  saleable,  ;and  like 
her  it  is  enticing  and  ruinous. 
A  real  work  of  art  can  only  arise  in  the  soul  of  an  artist 
occasionally,  as  the  fruit  of  the  life  he  has  lived,  just  as  a 
child  is"  conceived  by  its  mother.  But  counterfeit  art  is 
produced  by  artisans  and  handicraftsmen  continually,  if  only 
consumers  can  be  found. 
Eeal  art,  like  the  wife  of  an  affectionate  husband,  needs 
no  ornaments.  But  counterfeit  art,  like  a  prostitute,  must 
always  be  decked  out. 
The  cause  of  the  production  of  real  art  is  the  artist's  inner 
need  to  express  a  feeling  that  has  accumulated,  just  as  for  a 
mother  the  cause  of  sexual  conception  is  Jove.  The  cause 
of  counterfeit  art,  as  of  prostitution,  is  gain. 
The  consequence  of  true  art  is  the  introduction  of  a  new 
feeling  into  the  intercourse  of  life,  as  the  consequence  of  a 
wife's  love  is  the  birth  of  a  new  man  into  life. 
