1 62  WHAT  IS  ART? 
gave  another,  a  new  direction  to  all  human  feelings,  and 
therefore  completely  altered  both  the  contents  and  the 
significance  of  art.  The  Greeks  could  make  use  of  Persian 
art  and  the  Eomans  could  use  Greek  art,  or,  similarly,  the 
Jews  could  use  Egyptian  art, —  the  fundamental  ideals 
were  one  and  the  same.  Now  the  ideal  was  the  great 
ness  and  prosperity  of  the  Persians,  now  the  greatness 
and  prosperity  of  the  Greeks,  now  that  of  the  Eomans. 
The  same  art  was  transferred  into  other  conditions,  and 
served  new  nations.  But  the  Christian  ideal  changed 
and  reversed  everything,  so  that,  as  the  Gospel  puts  it, 
"That  which  was  exalted  among  men  has  become  an 
i  abomination  in  the  sight  of  God."  The  ideal  is  no  longer 
\  the  greatness  of  Pharaoh  or  of  a  Eomaii  emperor,  not  the 
beauty  of  a  Greek  nor  the  wealth  of  Phoenicia,  but  humility, 
I  purity,  compassion,  love.  The  hero  is  no  longer  Dives,  but 
Lazarus  the  beggar ;  not  Mary  Magdalene  in  the  day  of  her 
beauty,  but  in  the  day  of  her  repentance ;  not  those  who 
acquire  wealth,  but  those  who  have  abandoned  it ;  not  those 
who  dwell  in  palaces,  but  those  who  dwell  in  catacombs  and 
huts;  not  those  who  rule  over  others,  but  those  who 
acknowledge  110  authority  but  God's.  And  the  greatest 
work  of  art  is  no  longer  a  cathedral  of  victory l  with  statues 
of  conquerors,  but  the  representation  of  a  human  soul 
so  transformed  by  love  that  a  man  who  is  tormented  and 
murdered  yet  pities  and  loves  his  persecutors. 
And  the  change  is  so  great  that  men  of  the  Christian 
world  find  it  difficult  to  resist  the  inertia  of  the  heathen 
art  to  which  they  have  been  accustomed  all  their  lives.     The 
-  subject-matter  of  Christian  religious  art  is  so  new  to  them, 
{  so  unlike  the  subject-matter  of  former  art,  that  it  seems  to 
I  them  as  though  Christian  art  were  a  denial  of  art,  and  they 
1  There  is  in  Moscow  a  magnificent  "Cathedral  of  our  Saviour," erected  to  commemorate  the  defeat  of  the  French  in  the  war  of  1812. 
—Trans. 
