WHAT  IS  ART?  183 
Macaire,1  or  Napoleon,  and  all  their  accomplices,  assist 
ants,  and  adulators — and  it  supports  this  ideal  with  all  its 
might. 
It  is  this  supplanting  of  the  ideal  of  what  is  right  by 
the  ideal  of  what  is  beautiful,  i.e.  of  what  is  pleasant, 
that  is  the  fourth  consequence,  and  a  terrible  one,  of 
the  perversion  of  art  in  our  society.  It  is  fearful  to 
think  of  what  would  befall  humanity  were  such  art  to 
spread  among  the  masses  of  the  people.  And  it  already 
begins  to  spread. 
Finally,  the  fifth  and  chief  result  is,  that  the  art  which 
nourishes  in  the  upper  classes  of  European  society  has  a 
directly  vitiating  influence,  infecting  people  with  the  worst 
feelings  and  with  those  most  harmful  to  humanity — supersti 
tion,  patriotism,  and,  above  all,  sensuality. 
Look  carefully  into  the  causes  of  the  ignorance  of  the 
masses,  and  you  may  see  that  the  chief  cause  does  not  at  all 
lie  in  the  lack  of  schools  and  libraries,  as  we  are  accustomed 
to  suppose,  but  in  those  superstitions,  both  ecclesiastical 
and  patriotic,  with  which  the  people  are  saturated,  and 
which  are  unceasingly  generated  by  all  the  methods  of  art. 
Church  superstitions  are  supported  and  produced  by  the 
hung  for  a  breach  of  military  discipline,  and  to  this  event  Stenka 
Razin's  hatred  of  the  governing  classes  has  been  attributed.  He formed  a  robber  band,  and  subsequently  headed  a  formidable  re 
bellion,  declaring  himself  in  favour  of  freedom  for  the  serfs,  religious 
toleration,  and  the  abolition  of  taxes.  Like  the  Government  lie 
opposed,  he  relied  on  force,  and,  though  he  used  it  largely  in  defence 
of  the  poor  against  the  rich,  he  still  held  to 
"  The  good  old  rule,  the  simple  plan, 
That  they  should  take  who  have  the  power. 
And  they  should  keep  who  can." 
Like  Robin  Hood  he  is  favourably  treated  in  popular  legends. — Trans. 
1  Robert  Macaire  is  a  modern  type  of  adroit  and  audacious  rascality. 
He  was  the  hero  of  a  popular  play  produced  in  Paris  in  1834.— Trans. 
