xxxiv  AUTHORS  PREFACE. 
The  thing  occurred  in  this  way.  First,  Grote  softened 
my  expressions,  and  in  some  cases  weakened  them.  For 
instance,  he  replaced  the  words :  always  by  sometimes,  all 
hy  some,  Church  religion  by  Roman  Catholic  religion, 
"Mother  of  God"  by  Madonna,  patriotism  by  pseudo- 
patriotism,  palaces  by  palatii,1  etc.,  and  I  did  not  consider 
it  necessary  to  protest.  But  when  the  book  was  already 
in  type,  the  Censor  required  that  whole  sentences  should 
be  altered,  and  that  instead  of  what  I  said  about  the  evil 
of  landed  property,  a  remark  should  be  substituted  on  the 
evils  of  a  landless  proletariat.2  I  agreed  to  this  also  and to  some  further  alterations.  It  seemed  not  worth  while 
to  upset  the  whole  affair  for  the  sake  of  one  sentence,  and 
when  one  alteration  had  been  agreed  to  it  seemed  not 
worth  while  to  protest  against  a  second  and  a  third.  So, 
little  by  little,  expressions  crept  into  the  book  which 
altered  the  sense  and  attributed  things  to  me  that  I  could 
not  have  wished  to  say.  So  that  by  the  time  the  book 
was  printed  it  had  been  deprived  of  some  part  of  its 
integrity  and  sincerity.  But  there  was  consolation  in  the 
thought  that  the  book,  even  in  this  form,  if  it  contains 
something  that  is  good,  would  be  of  use  to  Eussian  readers 
whom  it  would  otherwise  not  have  reached.  Things,  how- 
1  Tolstoy's  remarks  on  Church  religion  were  re- worded  so  as  to  seem 
to  relate  only  to  the  Western  Church,  and  his  disapproval  of  luxurious 
life  was  made  to  apply  not,  say,  to  Queen  Victoria  or  Nicholas  n., 
but  to  the  Caesars  or  the  Pharaohs.— Trans. 
2  The  Russian  peasant  is  usually  a  member  of  a  village  commune, 
and  has  therefore  a  right  to  a  share  in  the  land  belonging  to  the 
village.     Tolstoy  disapproves  of  the  order  of  society  which  allows 
less  land  for  the  support  of  a  whole  village  full  of  people  than  is 
sometimes  owned  by  a  single  landed  proprietor.     The  "Censor"  will 
not  allow  disapproval  of  this  state  of  things  to  be  expressed,  but  is 
prepared  to  admit  that  the  laws  and  customs,   say,   of  England — 
where  a  yet  more  extreme  form  of  landed  property  exists,  and  the 
men  who  actually  labour  on  the  land  usually  possess  none  of  it — 
deserve  criticism. — Trans. 
