INTRODUCTION. 
aristocratic  party,  where  there  is  feasting  and  pleasure  and 
idleness,  and,  without  knowing  each  other's  minds,  they fall  in  love  as  the  birds  and  beasts  do.  If  any  feeling  is 
transmitted  to  us,  it  is  the  feeling  that  there  is  a  pleasure  in 
these  things.  Somewhere,  in  most  natures,  there  dwells, 
dominant  or  dormant,  an  inclination  to  let  such  physical 
sexual  attraction  guide  our  course  in  life.  To  give  it  a  plain 
name,  it  is  "sensuality."  "How  can  I,  father  or  mother  of 
a  daughter  of  Juliet's  age,  wish  that  those  foul  feelings which  the  play  transmits  should  be  communicated  to  my 
daughter?  And  if  the  feelings  transmitted  by  the  play 
are  bad,  how  can  I  call  it  good  in  subject-matter?" But,  objects  a  friend,  the  moral  of  Romeo  and  Juliet  is 
excellent.  See  what  disasters  followed  from  the  physical 
"love  at  first  sight."  But  that  is  quite  another  matter. It  is  the  feelings  with  which  you  are  infected  when  reading, 
and  not  any  moral  you  can  deduce,  that  is  subject-matter 
of  art.  Pondering  upon  the  consequences  that  flow  from 
Romeo  and  Juliet's  behaviour  may  belong  to  the  domain of  moral  science,  but  not  to  that  of  art. 
I  have  hesitated  to  use  an  illustration  Tolstoy  had  struck 
out,  but  I  think  it  serves  its  purpose.  No  doubt  there  are 
other,  subordinate,  feelings  (e.g.  humour)  to  be  found  in 
Romeo  and  Juliet ;  but  many  quaint  conceits  that  are  in 
genious,  and  have  been  much  admired,  are  not,  I  think, 
infectious. 
Tried  by  such  tests,  the  enormous  majority  of  the  things 
we  have  been  taught  to  consider  great  works  of  art  are 
found  wanting.  Either  they  fail  to  infect  (and  attract 
merely  by  being  interesting,  realistic,  effectful,  or  by  bor 
rowing  from  others),  and  are  therefore  not  works  of  art  at 
all;  or  they  are  works  of  "exclusive  art,"  bad  in  form  and 
capable  of  infecting  only  a  select  audience  trained  and 
habituated  to  such  inferior  art ;  or  they  are  bad  in  subject- 
matter,  transmitting  feelings  harmful  to  mankind. 
