xxviii  INTRODUCTION. 
inevitably  results,  as  has  always  been  the  case  when  men 
have  seized  a  fresh  perception  of  life  and  of  its  purpose. 
An  illustration  which  Tolstoy  struck  out  of  the  work 
while  it  was  being  printed,  may  serve  to  illustrate  how,  with 
the  aid  of  the  principles  explained  above,  we  may  judge  of 
the  merits  of  any  work  professing  to  be  art. 
Take  Romeo  and  Juliet.  The  conventional  view  is  that 
Shakespear  is  the  greatest  of  artists,  and  that  Romeo  and 
Juliet  is  one  of  his  good  plays.  Why  this  is  so  nobody  can 
tell  you.  It  is  so :  that  is  the  way  certain  people  feel  about 
it.  They  are  "  the  authorities,"  and  to  doubt  their  dictum 
is  to  show  that  you  know  nothing  about  art.  Tolstoy  does 
not  agree  with  them  in  their  estimate  of  Shakespear, 
therefore  Tolstoy  is  wrong  ! 
But  now  let  us  apply  Tolstoy's  view  of  art  to  Romeo 
and  Juliet.  He  does  not  deny  that  it  infects.  "  Let  us 
admit  that  it  is  a  work  of  art,  that  it  infects  (though  it  is  so 
artificial  that  it  can  infect  only  those  who  have  been  care 
fully  educated  thereunto);  but  what  are  the  feelings  it 
transmits  ?  " 
That  is  to  say,  judging  by  the  infernal  test,  Tolstoy 
admits  that  Romeo  and  Juliet  unites  him  to  its  author  and 
to  other  people  in  feeling.  But  the  work  is  very  far  from 
being  one  of  "  universal "  art — only  a  small  minority  of people  ever  have  cared,  or  ever  will  care,  for  it.  Even  in 
England,  or  even  in  the  layer  of  European  society  it 
is  best  adapted  to  reach,  it  only  touches  a  minority,  and 
does  not  approach  the  universality  attained  by  the  story  of 
Joseph  and  many  pieces  of  folk-lore. 
But  perhaps  the  subject-matter,  the  feeling  with  which 
Romeo  and  Juliet  infects  those  whom  it  does  reach,  lifts  it 
into  the  class  of  the  highest  religious  art?  Not  so.  The 
feeling  is  one  of  the  attractiveness  of  "love  at  first  sight." 
A  girl  fourteen  years  old  and  a  young  man  meet  at  an 
