AUTHOR'S  PREFACE.  xxxv 
ever,  turned  out  otherwise.  Nous  comptions  sans  notre 
Iwte.  After  the  legal  term  of  four  days  had  already  elapsed, 
the  book  was  seized,  and,  on  instructions  received  from 
Petersburg,  it  was  handed  over  to  the  "Spiritual  Censor." 
Then  Grote  declined  all  further  participation  in  the  affair, 
and  the  "  Spiritual  Censor  "  proceeded  to  do  what  he  would 
with  the  book.  The  "  Spiritual  Censorship  "  is  one  of  the 
most  ignorant,  venal,  stupid,  and  despotic  institutions  in 
Russia.  Books  which  disagree  in  any  way  with  the  recog 
nised  state  religion  of  Russia,  if  once  it  gets  hold  of  them, 
are  almost  always  totally  suppressed  and  burnt;  which  is 
what  happened  to  all  my  religious  works  when  attempts 
were  made  to  print  them  in  Russia.  Probably  a  similar 
fate  would  have  overtaken  this  work  also,  had  not  the 
editors  of  the  magazine  employed  all  means  to  save  it. 
The  result  of  their  efforts  was  that  the  "  Spiritual  Censor," 
a  priest  who  probably  understands  art  and  is  interested  in 
art  as  much  as  I  understand  or  am  interested  in  church 
services,  but  who  gets  a  good  salary  for  destroying  whatever 
is  likely  to  displease  his  superiors,  struck  out  all  that 
seemed  to  him  to  endanger  his  position,  and  substituted 
his  thoughts  for  mine  wherever  he  considered  it  necessary 
to  do  so.  For  instance,  where  I  speak  of  Christ  going  to 
the  Cross  for  the  sake  of  the  truth  He  professed,  the 
"Censor"  substituted  a  statement  that  Christ  died  for 
mankind,  i.e.  he  attributed  to  me  an  assertion  of  the 
dogma  of  the  Redemption,  which  I  consider  to  be  one 
of  the  most  untrue  and  harmful  of  Church  dogmas.  After 
correcting  the  book  in  this  way,  the  "Spiritual  Censor" 
allowed  it  to  be  printed. 
To  protest  in  Russia  is  impossible,  no  newspaper  would 
publish  such  a  protest,  and  to  withdraw  my  book  from  the 
magazine  and  place  the  editor  in  an  awkward  position  with 
the  public  was  also  not  possible. 
So  the  matter  has  remained.     A  book  has  appeared  under 
