xxx  INTRODUCTION, 
Tolstoy  does  not  shrink  from  condemning  his  own 
artistic  productions;  with  the  exception  of  two  short  stories, 
he  tells  us  they  are  works  of  bad  art.  Take,  for  instance, 
the  novel  Resurrection,  which  is  now  appearing,  and  of 
which  he  has,  somewhere,  spoken  disparagingly,  as  being 
"written  in  my  former  style,"  and  being  therefore  bad  art. 
What  does  this  mean  ?  The  book  is  a  masterpiece  in  its 
own  line ;  it  is  eagerly  read  in  many  languages ;  it  un 
doubtedly  infects  its  readers,  and  the  feelings  transmitted 
are,  in  the  main,  such  as  Tolstoy  approves  of — in  fact,  they  are 
the  feelings  to  which  his  religious  perception  has  brought 
him.  If  lust  is  felt  in  one  chapter,  the  reaction  follows 
as  inevitably  as  in  real  life,  and  is  transmitted  with  great 
artistic  power.  Why  a  work  of  such  rare  merit  does  not 
satisfy  Tolstoy,  is  because  it  is  a  work  of  "exclusive 
art,"  laden  with  details  of  time  and  place.  It  has  not  the 
"  simplicity  and  compression"  necessary  in  works  of  "uni 
versal  "  art.  Things  are  mentioned  which  might  apparently 
be  quite  well  omitted.  The  style,  also,  is  not  one  of  great 
simplicity;  the  sentences  are  often  long  and  involved,  as  is 
commonly  the  case  in  Tolstoy's  writings.  It  is  a  novel 
appealing  mainly  to  the  class  that  has  leisure  for  novel  read 
ing  because  it  neglects  to  produce  its  own  food,  make  its  own 
clothes,  or  build  its  own  houses.  If  Tolstoy  is  stringent  in 
his  judgment  of  other  artists,  he  is  more  stringent  still  in 
his  judgment  of  his  own  artistic  works'  Had  Resurrec tion  been  written  by  Dickens,  or  by  Hugo,  Tolstoy  would,  I 
think,  have  found  a  place  for  it  (with  whatever  reservations) 
among  the  examples  of  religious  art.  For  indeed,  strive  as 
we  may  to  be  clear  and  explicit,  our  approval  and  dis 
approval  is  a  matter  of  degree.  The  thought  which  under 
lay  the  remark:  "  Why  callest  thou  me  good?  none  is  good, 
save  one,  even  God,"  applies  not  to  man  only,  but  to  all 
things  human. 
What    is   Art?    itself    is    a    work    of    science — though 
