INTRODUCTION.  xxvii 
"  The  destiny  of  art  in  our  time  is  to  transmit  from  the 
realm  of  reason  to  the  realm  of  feeling  the  truth  that  well- 
being  for  men  consists  in  being  united  together,  and  to  set 
up,  in  place  of  the  existing  reign  of  force,  that  kingdom  of 
God,  i.e.  of  love,  which  we  all  recognise  to  be  the  highest 
aim  of  human  life." 
And  this  art  of  the  future  will  not  be  poorer,  but  far 
,  richer,  in  subject-matter  than  the  art  of  to-day.  From  the 
lullaby — that  will  delight  millions  of  people,  generation  after 
generation — to  the  highest  religious  art,  dealing  with  strong, 
rich,  and  varied  emotions  flowing  from  a  fresh  outlook  upon 
life  and  all  its  problems— the  field  open  for  good  art  is 
enormous.  With  so  much  to  say  that  is  urgently  important 
to  all,  the  art  of  the  future  will,  in  matter  of  form  also,  be 
far  superior  to  our  art  in  "  clearness,  beauty,  simplicity,  and 
compression  "  (p.  194). 
For  beauty  (i.e.,  "that  which  pleases'"') — though  it  depends on  taste,  and  can  furnish  no  criterion  for  art — will  be  a 
natural  characteristic  of  work  done,  not  for  hire,  nor  even 
for  fame,  but  because  men,  living  a  natural  and  healthy  life, 
wish  to  share  the  "  highest  spiritual  strength  which  passes 
through  them  "  with  the  greatest  possible  number  of  others. 
The  feelings  such  an  artist  wishes  to  share,  he  will  transmit 
in  a  way  that  will  please  him,  and  will  please  other  men 
who  share  his  nature. 
Morality  is  in  the  nature  of  things — we  cannot  escape  it. 
In  a  society  where  each  man  sets  himself  to  obtain 
wealth,  the  difficulty  of  obtaining  an  honest  living  tends  to 
become  greater  and  greater.  The  more  keenly  a  society 
pants  to  obtain  "that  which  pleases,"  and  puts  this  for 
ward  as  the  first  and  great  consideration,  the  more  puerile 
and  worthless  will  their  art  become.  But  in  a  society  which 
sought,  primarily,  for  right  relations  between  its  members, 
an  abundance  would  easily  be  obtainable  for  all ;  and 
when  "  religious  perception  "  guides  a  people's  art — beauty 
