2  WHAT  IS  ART? 
For  the  support  of  art  in  Kussia  (where  for  the  education 
of  the  people  only  a  hundredth  part  is  spent  of  what  would 
be  required  to  give  everyone  the  opportunity  of  instruction) 
the  Government  grants  millions  of  roubles  in  subsidies  to 
academies,  conservatoires  and  theatres.  In  France  twenty 
million  francs  are  assigned  for  art,  and  similar  grants  are 
made  in  Germany  and  England. 
In  every  large  town  enormous  buildings  are  erected  for 
museums,  academies,  conservatoires,  dramatic  schools,  and  for 
performances  and  concerts.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  work 
men, — carpenters,  masons,  painters,  joiners,  paperhangers, 
tailors,  hairdressers,  jewellers,  moulders,  type-setters, — spend 
their  whole  lives  in  hard  labour  to  satisfy  the  demands  of 
art,  so  that  hardly  any  other  department  of  human  activity, 
except  the  military,  consumes  so  much  energy  as  this. 
Not  only  is  enormous  labour  spent  on  this  activity,  but  in 
it,  as  in  war,  the  very  lives  of  men  are  sacrificed.  Hundreds 
of  thousands  of  people  devote  their  lives  from  childhood  to 
learning  to  twirl  their  legs  rapidly  (dancers),  or  to  touch 
notes  and  strings  very  rapidly  (musicians),  or  to  draw  with 
paint  and  represent  what  they  see  (artists),  or  to  turn  every 
phrase  inside  out  and  find  a  rhyme  to  every  word.  And  these 
people,  often  very  kind  and  clever,  and  capable  of  all  sorts 
of  useful  labour,  grow  savage  over  their  specialised  and 
stupefying  occupations,  and  become  one-sided  and  self- 
complacent  specialists,  dull  to  all  the  serious  phenomena  of 
life,  and  skilful  only  at  rapidly  twisting  their  legs,  their 
tongues,  or  their  fingers. 
But  even  this  stunting  of  human  life  is  not  the  worst.  I 
remember  being  once  at  the  rehearsal  of  one  of  the  most 
ordinary  of  the  new  operas  which  are  produced  at  all  the 
opera  houses  of  Europe  and  America. 
I  arrived  when  the  first  act  had  already  commenced.  To 
reach  the  auditorium  I  had  to  pass  through  the  stage 
entrance.  By  dark  entrances  and  passages,  I  was  led  through 
