6  WHAT  IS  ART? 
making  the  rick  right,  and  the  man  submitted  in  silence. 
And,  however  unpleasant  it  was  to  witness  the  scene,  the 
unpleasantness  was  lessened  by  the  consciousness  that  the 
business  in  hand  was  needful  and  important,  and  that  the 
fault  for  which  the  head-man  scolded  the  labourer  was  one 
which  might  spoil  a  needful  undertaking. 
But  what  was  being  done  here1?  For  what,  and  for 
whom  ?  Very  likely  the  conductor  was  tired  out,  like  the 
workman  I  passed  in  the  vaults ;  it  was  even  evident  that 
he  was;  but  who  made  him  tire  himself?  And  for  what 
was  he  tiring  himself?  The  opera  he  was  rehearsing  was 
one  of  the  most  ordinary  of  operas  for  people  who  are 
accustomed  to  them,  but  also  one  of  the  most  gigantic 
absurdities  that  could  possibly  be  devised.  An  Indian  king 
wants  to  marry ;  they  bring  him  a  bride ;  he  disguises  him 
self  as  a  minstrel ;  the  bride  falls  in  love  with  the  minstrel 
and  is  in  despair,  but  afterwards  discovers  that  the  minstrel 
is  the  king,  and  everyone  is  highly  delighted. 
That  there  never  were,  or  could  be,  such  Indians,  and  that 
they  were  not  only  unlike  Indians,  but  that  what  they  were 
doing  was  unlike  anything  on  earth  except  other  operas, 
was  beyond  all  manner  of  doubt;  that  people  do  not  con 
verse  in  such  a  way  as  recitative,  and  do  not  place  them 
selves  at  fixed  distances,  in  a  quartet,  waving  their  arms  to 
express  their  emotions ;  that  nowhere,  except  in  theatres,  do 
people  walk  about  in  such  a  manner,  in  pairs,  with  tinfoil 
halberds  and  in  slippers ;  that  no  one  ever  gets  angry  in  such 
a  way,  or  is  affected  in  such  a  way,  or  laughs  in  such  a  way, 
or  cries  in  such  a  way ;  and  that  no  one  on  earth  can 
be  moved  by  such  performances;  all  this  is  beyond  the 
possibility  of  doubt 
Instinctively  the  question  presents  itself — For  whom  is 
this  being  done?  "Whom  can  it  please1?  If  there  are, occasionally,  good  melodies  in  the  opera,  to  which  it  is 
pleasant  to  listen,  they  could  have  been  sung  simply,  without 
