4  WHAT  is  ART? 
and  then  stopped.  The  procession  took  a  long  time  to 
arrange  :  first  the  Jndians  with  halberds  came  on  too  late ; 
then  too  soon ;  then  at  the  right  time,  but  crowded  together 
at  the  exit ;  then  they  did  not  crowd,  but  arranged  themselves 
badly  at  the  sides  of  the  stage ;  and  each  time  the  whole 
performance  was  stopped  and  recommenced  from  the  be 
ginning.  The  procession  was  introduced  by  a  recitative, 
delivered  by  a  man  dressed  up  like  some  variety  of  Turk, 
who,  opening  his  mouth  in  a  curious  way,  sang,  "  Home  I 
bring  the  bri-i-ide."  He  sings  and  waves  his  arm  (which  is 
of  course  bare)  from  under  his  mantle.  The  procession 
commences,  but  here  the  French  horn,  in  the  accompaniment 
of  the  recitative,  does  something  wrong ;  and  the  director, 
with  a  shudder  as  if  some  catastrophe  had  occurred,  raps 
with  his  stick  on  the  stand.  All  is  stopped,  and  the 
director,  turning  to  the  orchestra,  attacks  the  French  horn, 
scolding  him  in  the  rudest  terms,  as  cabmen  abuse  each 
other,  for  taking  the  wrong  note.  And  again  the  whole 
thing  recommences.  The  Indians  with  their  halberds 
again  come  on,  treading  softly  in  their  extraordinary  boots ; 
again  the  singer  sings,  "Home  I  bring  the  bri-i-ide."  But 
here  the  pairs  get  too  close  together.  More  raps  with 
the  stick,  more  scolding,  and  a  recommencement.  Again, 
"Home  I  bring  the  bri-i-ide,"  again  the  same  gesticulation 
with  the  bare  arm  from  under  the  mantle,  and  again  the 
couples,  treading  softly  with  halberds  on  their  shoulders, 
some  with  sad  and  serious  faces,  some  talking  and  smiling, 
arrange  themselves  in  a  circle  and  begin  to  sing.  All 
seems  to  be  going  well,  but  again  the  stick  raps,  and  the 
director,  in  a  distressed  and  angry  voice,  begins  to  scold 
the  men  and  women  of  the  chorus.  It  appears  that  when 
singing  they  had  omitted  to  raise  their  hands  from  time  to 
time  in  sign  of  animation.  "Are  you  all  dead,  or  what? 
Cows  that  you  are  !  Are  you  corpses,  that  you  can't  move  1 " 
Again  they  re-commence,  "  Home  I  bring  the  bri-i-ide,"  and 
