WHAT  IS  ART?  5 
again,  with  sorrowful  faces,  the  chorus  women  sing,  first  one 
and  then  another  of  them  raising  their  hands.  But  two 
chorus-girls  speak  to  each  other, — again  a  more  vehement 
rapping  with  the  stick.  "  Have  you  come  here  to  talk  ?  Can't 
you  gossip  at  home?  You  there  in  red  breeches,  come 
nearer.  Look  towards  me  !  Recommence  !  "  Again,  "  Home 
I  bring  the  bri-i-ide."  And  so  it  goes  on  for  one,  two,  three hours.  The  whole  of  such  a  rehearsal  lasts  six  hours  on 
end.  Raps  with  the  stick,  repetitions,  placings,  corrections 
of  the  singers,  of  the  orchestra,  of  the  procession,  of  the 
dancers, — all  seasoned  with  angry  scolding.  I  heard  the 
words,  "asses,"  "fools,"  "idiots,"  "swine,"  addressed  to  the 
musicians  and  singers  at  least  forty  times  in  the  course  of 
one  hour.  And  the  unhappy  individual  to  whom  the  abuse 
is  addressed, — flautist,  horn-blower,  or  singer, — physically  and 
mentally  demoralised,  does  not  reply,  and  does  what  is 
demanded  of  him.  Twenty  times  is  repeated  the  one  phrase, 
"  Home  I  bring  the  bri-i-ide,"  and  twenty  times  the  striding 
about  in  yellow  shoes  with  a  halberd  over  the  shoulder. 
The  conductor  knows  that  these  people  are  so  demoralised 
that  they  are  no  longer  fit  for  anything  but  to  blow  trumpets 
and  walk  about  with  halberds  and  in  yellow  shoes,  and  that 
they  are  also  accustomed  to  dainty,  easy  living,  so  that  they 
will  put  up  with  anything  rather  than  lose  their  luxurious 
life.  He  therefore  gives  free  vent  to  his  churlishness, 
especially  as  he  has  seen  the  same  thing  done  in  Paris  and 
Vienna,  and  knows  that  this  is  the  way  the  best  conductors 
behave,  and  that  it  is  a  musical  tradition  of  great  artists 
to  be  so  carried  away  by  the  great  business  of  their  art 
that  they  cannot  pause  to  consider  the  feelings  of  other 
artists. 
It  would  be  difficult  to  find  a  more  repulsive  sight.  I 
have  seen  one  workman  abuse  another  for  not  supporting 
the  weight  piled  upon  him  when  goods  wore  being  unloaded, 
or,  at  hay-stacking,  the  village  elder  scold  a  peasant  for  not 
