WHAT  IS  ART?  3 
the  vaults  of  an  enormous  building  past  immense  machines 
for  changing  the  scenery  and  for  illuminating ;  and  there  in 
the  gloom  and  dust  I  saw  workmen  busily  engaged.  One 
of  these  men,  pale,  haggard,  in  a  dirty  blouse,  with  dirty, 
work-worn  hands  and  cramped  fingers,  evidently  tired  and 
out  of  humour,  went  past  me,  angrily  scolding  another  man. 
Ascending  by  a  dark  stair,  I  came  out  on  the  boards  behind 
the  scenes.  Amid  various  poles  and  rings  and  scattered 
scenery,  decorations  arid  curtains,  stood  and  moved  dozens, 
if  not  hundreds,  of  painted  and  dressed-up  men,  in  costumes 
fitting  tight  to  their  thighs  and  calves,  and  also  women,  as 
usual,  as  nearly  nude  as  might  be.  These  were  all  singers, 
or  members  of  the  chorus,  or  ballet-dancers,  awaiting  their 
turns.  My  guide  led  me  across  the  stage  and,  by  means  of 
a  bridge  of  boards,  across  the  orchestra  (in  which  perhaps 
a  hundred  musicians  of  all  kinds,  from  kettle-drum  to  flute 
and  harp,  were  seated),  to  the  dark  pit-stalls. 
On  an  elevation,  between  two  lamps  with  reflectors,  and 
in  an  arm-chair  placed  before  a  music-stand,  sat  the  director 
of  the  musical  part,  baton  in  hand,  managing  the  orchestra 
and  singers,  and,  in  general,  the  production  of  the  whole 
opera. 
The  performance  had  already  commenced,  and  on  the 
stage  a  procession  of  Indians  who  had  brought  home  a  bride 
was  being  represented.  Besides  men  and  women  in  costume, 
two  other  men  in  ordinary  clothes  bustled  and  ran  about  on 
the  stage ;  one  was  the  director  of  the  dramatic  part,  and 
the  other,  who  stepped  about  in  soft  shoes  and  ran  from 
place  to  place  with  unusual  agility,  was  the  dancing-master, 
whose  salary  per  month  exceeded  what  ten  labourers  earn 
in  a  year. 
These  three  directors  arranged  the  singing,  the  orchestra, 
and  the  procession.  The  procession,  as  usual,  was  enacted 
by  couples,  with  tinfoil  halberds  on  their  shoulders.  They 
all  came  from  one  place,  and  walked  round  and  round  again, 
