io  WHAT  IS  ART? 
And  therefore  it  is  necessary  for  a  society  in  which  works 
of  art  arise  and  are  supported,  to  find  out  whether  all  that 
professes  to  be  art  is  really  art ;  whether  (as  is  presupposed 
in  our  society)  all  that  which  is  art  is  good ;  and  whether 
it  is  important  and  worth  those  sacrifices  which  it  necessi 
tates.  It  is  still  more  necessary  for  every  conscientious 
artist  to  know  this,  that  he  may  be  sure  that  all  he  does 
has  a  valid  meaning ;  that  it  is  not  merely  an  infatuation 
of  the  small  circle  of  people  among  whom  he  lives  which 
excites  in  him  the  false  assurance  that  he  is  doing  a  good 
work ;  and  that  what  he  takes  fM>m  others  for  the  support 
of  his  often  very  luxurious  life,  will  be  compensated  for  by 
those  productions  at  which  he  works.  And  that  is  why 
answers  to  the  above  questions  are  especially  important  in 
our  time. 
What  is  this  art,  whi<  h  is  considered  so  important  and 
necessary  for  humanity  that  for  its  sake  these  sacrifices  of 
labour,  of  human  life,  and  even  of  goodness  may  be  made  1 
"What  is  art?  What  a  question!  Art  is  architecture, 
sculpture,  painting,  music,  and  poetry  in  all  its  forms," 
usually  replies  the  ordinary  man,  the  art  amateur,  or  even 
the  artist  himself,  imagining  the  matter  about  which  he  is 
talking  to  be  perfectly  clear,  and  uniformly  understood  by 
everybody.  But  in  architecture,  one  inquires  further, 
are  there  not  simple  buildings  which  are  not  objects  of 
art,  and  buildings  with  artistic  pretensions  which  are  un 
successful  and  ugly  and  therefore  cannot  be  considered  as 
works  of  art  1  wherein  lies  the  characteristic  sign  of  a  work 
of  art  ? 
It  is  the  same  in  sculpture,  in  music,  and  in  poetry.  Art, 
in  all  its  forms,  is  bounded  on  one  side  by  the  practically 
useful  and  on  the  other  by  unsuccessful  attempts  at  art. 
How  is  art  to  be  marked  off  from  each  of  these1?  The 
ordinary  educated  man  of  our  circle,  and  even  the  artist 
who  has  not  occupied  himself  especially  with  aesthetics, 
