I4  WHAT  IS  ART? 
But  the  ordinary  man  either  does  not  know,  or  does  not 
wish  to  know,  all  this,  and  is  firmly  convinced  that  all 
questions  about  art  may  be  simply  and  clearly  solved  by 
acknowledging  beauty  to  be  the  subject-matter  of  art.  To 
him  it  seems  clear  and  comprehensible  that  art  consists  in 
manifesting  beauty,  and  that  a  reference  to  beauty  will 
serve  to  explain  all  questions  about  art. 
But  what  is  this  beauty  which  forms  the  subject-matter 
of  art  1  How  is  it  defined  1  What  is  it  ? 
As  is  always  the  case,  the  more  cloudy  and  confused  the 
conception  conveyed  by  a  word,  with  the  more  aplomb  and 
self-assurance  do  people  use  that  word,  pretending  that 
what  is  understood  by  it  is  so  simple  and  clear  that  it  is 
not  worth  while  even  to  discuss  what  it  actually 
means. 
This  is  how  matters  of  orthodox  religion  are  usually  dealt 
with,  and  this  is  how  people  now  deal  with  the  conception 
•of  beauty.  It  is  taken  for  granted  that  what  is  meant  by 
the  word  beauty  is  known  and  understood  by  everyone. 
And  yet  not  only  is  this  not  known,  but,  after  whole 
.mountains  of  books  have  been  written  on  the  subject  by  the 
most  learned  and  profound  thinkers  during  one  hundred 
and  fifty  years  (ever  since  Baumgarten  founded  aesthetics  in 
the  year  1750),  the  question,  What  is  beauty1?  remains  to this  day  quite  unsolved,  and  in  each  new  work  on  aesthetics 
it  is  answered  in  a  new  way.  One  of  the  last  books  I 
read  on  aesthetics  is  a  not  ill-written  booklet  by  Julius 
Mithalter,  called  Rdtsel  des  Schonen  (The  Enigma  of  the 
Beautiful).  And  that  title  precisely  expresses  the  position 
of  the  question,  What  is  beauty  1  After  thousands  of 
learned  men  have  discussed  it  during  one  hundred  and  fifty 
years,  the  meaning  of  the  word  beauty  remains  an  enigma 
still.  The  Germans  answer  the  question  in  their  manner, 
though  in  a  hundred  different  ways.  The  physiologist- 
.sestheticians,  especially  the  Englishmen :  Herbert  Spencer, 
