1 6  WHAT  IS  ART? 
tion  "good."  If  we  say  "good"  of  an  article  which,  we 
value  for  its  appearance,  we  thereby  say  that  the  article  is 
beautiful;  but  if  we  say  it  is  "beautiful,"  it  does  not  at 
all  mean  that  the  article  is  a  good  one, 
Such  is  the  meaning  ascribed  by  the  Eussian  language, 
and  therefore  by  the  sense  of  the  people,  to  the  words  and 
conceptions  "good"  and  "beautiful." 
In  all  the  European  languages,  i.e.  the  languages  of  those 
nations  among  whom  the  doctrine  has  spread  that  beauty  is 
the  essential  thing  in  art,  the  words  "beau,"  "schon," 
"beautiful,"  "bello,"  etc.,  while  keeping  their  meaning  of 
beautiful  in  form,  have  come  to  also  express  "goodness," 
"kindness,"  i.e.  have  come  to  act  as  substitutes  for  the 
word  "good." 
So  that  it  has  become  quite  natural  in  those  languages  to 
use  such  expressions  as  "  belle  ame,"  "schone  Gedanken,"  of 
"beautiful  deed."  Those  languages  no  longer  have  a 
suitable  word  wherewith  expressly  to  indicate  beauty  of 
form,  and  have  to  use  a  combination  of  words  such  as 
"beau  par  la  forme,"  "beautiful  to  look  at,"  etc.,  to  convey that  idea. 
Observation  of  the  divergent  meanings  which  the  words 
"  beauty  "  and  "  beautiful "  have  in  Eussian  on  the  one  hand, 
and  in  those  European  languages  now  permeated  by  this 
aesthetic  theory  on  the  other  hand,  shows  us  that  the  word 
"  beauty  "  has,  among  the  latter,  acquired  a  special  meaning, 
namely,  that  of  "good." What  is  remarkable,  moreover,  is  that  since  we  Eussians 
have  begun  more  and  more  to  adopt  the  European  view  of 
art,  the  same  evolution  has  begun  to  show  itself  in  our 
language  also,  and  some  people  speak  and  write  quite 
confidently,  and  without  causing  surprise,  of  beautiful  music 
and  ugly  actions,  or  even  thoughts  ;  whereas  forty  years  ago, 
when  I  was  young,  the  expressions  "  beautiful  music "  and 
"  ugly  actions  "  were  not  only  unusual  but  incomprehensible. 
