WHAT  IS  ART?  7 
these  stupid  costumes  and  all  the  processions  and  recitatives 
and  hand-wavings. 
The  ballet,  in  which  half-naked  women  make  voluptuous 
movements,  twisting  themselves  into  various  sensual  wreath- 
ings,  is  oirnply  a  lewd  performance. 
So  one  is  quite  at  a  loss  as  to  whom  these  things  are  done 
for.  The  man  of  culture  is  heartily  sick  of  them,  while  to 
a  real  working  man  they  are  utterly  incomprehensible.  If 
anyone  can  be  pleased  by  these  things  (which  is  doubtful), 
it  can  only  be  some  young  footman  or  depraved  artisan,  who 
has  contracted  the  spirit  of  the  upper  classes  but  is  not  yet 
satiated  with  their  amusements,  and  wishes  to  show  his 
breeding. 
And  all  this  nasty  folly  is  prepared,  not  simply,  nor  with 
kindly  merriment,  but  with  anger  and  brutal  cruelty. 
It  is  said  that  it  is  all  done  for  the  sake  of  art,  and  that 
art  is  a  very  important  thing.  But  is  it  true  that  art  is  so 
important  that  such  sacrifices  should  be  made  for  its  sake  1 
This  question  is  especially  urgent,  because  art,  for  the  sake 
of  which  the  labour  of  millions,  the  lives  of  men,  and  above 
all,  love  between  man  and  man,  are  being  sacrificed, — this 
very  art  is  becoming  something  more  and  more  vague  and 
uncertain  to  human  perception. 
Criticism,  in  which  the  lovers  of  art  used  to  find  support 
for  their  opinions,  has  latterly  become  so  self -contradictory, 
that,  if  we  exclude  from  the  domain  of  art  all  that  to 
which  the  critics  of  various  schools  themselves  deny  the 
title,  there  is  scarcely  any  art  left. 
The  artists  of  various  sects,  like  the  theologians  of  the 
various  sects,  mutually  exclude  and  destroy  themselves. 
Listen  to  the  artists  of  the.  schools  of  our  times,  and  you 
will  find,  in  all  branches,  each  set  of  artists  disowning  others. 
In  poetry  the  old  romanticists  deny  the  parnassians  and 
the  decadents ;  the  parnassians  disown  the  romanticists  and 
the  decadents ;  the  decadents  disown  all  their  predecessors 
