WHAT  IS  ART?  %  15 
Grant  Allen  and  his  school,  answer  it,  each  in  his  own 
way ;  the  French  eclectics,  and  the  followers  of  Guyau  and 
Taine,  also  each  in  his  own  way ;  and  all  these  people  know 
all  the  preceding  solutions  given  by  Baumgarten,  and  Kant, 
and  Schelling,  and  Schiller,  and  Fichte,  and  Winckelmann, 
and  Lessing,  and  Hegel,  and  Schopenhauer,  and  Hartmann, 
and  Schasler,  and  Cousin,  and  Leveque  and  others. 
What  is  this  strange  conception  "  beauty,"  which  seems  so 
simple  to  those  who  talk  without  thinking,  but  in  denning 
which  all  the  philosophers  of  various  tendencies  and  different 
nationalities  can  come  to  no  agreement  during  a  century  and 
a  half  ?  What  is  this  conception  of  beauty,  on  which  the 
dominant  doctrine  of  art  rests  1 
In  Russian,  by  the  word  krasota  (beauty)  we  mean  only 
that  which  pleases  the  sight.  And  though  latterly  people 
have  begun  to  speak  of  "an  ugly  deed,"  or  of  "beautiful 
music,"  it  is  not  good  Russian. 
A  Russian  of  the  common  folk,  not  knowing  foreign 
languages,  will  not  understand  you  if  you  tell  him  that  a 
man  who  has  given  his  last  coat  to  another,  or  done  any 
thing  similar,  has  acted  "  beautifully,"  that  a  man  who  has 
cheated  another  has  done  an  "  ugly  "  action,  or  that  a  song 
is  "beautiful." 
In  Russian  a  deed  may  be  kind  and  good,  or  unkind  and 
bad.  Music  may  be  pleasant  and  good,  or  unpleasant  and 
bad;  but  there  can  be  no  such  thing  as  "beautiful"  or 
"ugly  "  music. 
Beautiful  may  relate  to  a  man,  a  horse,  a  house,  a  view, 
or  a  movement.  Of  actions,  thoughts,  character,  or  music, 
if  they  please  us,  we  may  say  that  they  are  good,  or,  if  they 
do  not  please  us,  that  they  are  not  good.  But  beautiful 
can  be  used  only  concerning  that  which  pleases  the  sight. 
So  that  the  word  and  conception  "good"  includes  the 
conception  of  "  beautiful,"  but  the  reverse  is  not  the  case ; 
the  conception  "  beauty "  does  not  include  the  concep- 
