WHAT  IS  ART?  n 
will  not  hesitate  at  this  question  either.  He  thinks  the 
solution  has  been  found  long  ago,  and  is  well  known  to 
everyone. 
"Art  is  such  activity  as  produces  beauty,"  says  such  a man. 
If  art  consists  in  that,  then  is  a  ballet  or  an  operetta 
art1?  you  inquire. 
"Yes,"  says  the  ordinary  man,  though  Avith  some  hesita 
tion,  "a  good  ballet  or  a  graceful  operetta  is  also  art,  in  so 
far  as  it  manifests  beauty." 
But  without  even  asking  the  ordinary  man  what  differen 
tiates  the  "good"  ballet  and  the  "graceful"  operetta  from 
their  opposites  (a  question  he  would  have  much  difficulty 
in  answering),  if  you  ask  him  whether  the  activity  of  cos 
tumiers  and  hairdressers,  who  ornament  the  figures  and  faces 
of  the  women  for  the  ballet  and  the  operetta,  is  art ;  or  the 
activity  of  Worth,  the  dressmaker ;  of  scent-makers  and  men- 
cooks,  then  he  will,  in  most  cases,  deny  that  their  activity 
belongs  to  the  sphere  of  art.  But  in  this  the  ordinary  man 
makes  a  mistake,  just  because  he  is  an  ordinary  man  and  not 
a  specialist,  and  because  he  has  not  occupied  himself  with 
aesthetic  questions.  Had  he  looked  into  these  matters,  he 
would  have  seen  in  the  great  Kenan's  book,  Marc,  Aurele, 
a  dissertation  showing  that  the  tailor's  work  is  art,  and  that those  who  do  not  see  in  the  adornment  of  woman  an  affair 
of  the  highest  art  are  very  small-minded  and  dull.  "  C'est  le 
grand  art,"  says  Kenan.  Moreover,  he  would  have  known 
that  in  many  aesthetic  systems — for  instance,  in  the  aesthetics 
of  the  learned  Professor  Kralik,  Weltschonheit,  Versuch 
einer  allgemeinen  ^Esthetik,  von  Richard  Kralik,  and  in  Les 
problemes  de  V  Esthetique  Contemporaine,  by  Guyau — the  arts 
of  costume,  of  taste,  and  of  touch  are  included. 
"  Es  Folgt  nun  ein  Funfblatt  von  Kunsten,  die  der  subjeo- 
tiven  Sinnlichkeit  entkeimen  "(There  results  then  a  pentafoliate 
of  arts,  growing  out  of  the  subjective  perceptions),  says 
