WHAT  IS  ART  1  13 
This  author,  like  Kenan,  acknowledges  a  Kostilmkunst 
(Art  of  Costume)  (p.  200),  etc. 
Such  is  also  the  opinion  of  the  French  writer,  Guyau, 
who  is  highly  esteemed  by  some  authors  of  our  day.  In 
his  book,  Les  problemes  de  Vesthetique  contemporaine,  he 
speaks  seriously  of  touch,  taste,  and  smell  as  giving,  or  being 
capable  of  giving,  aesthetic  impressions :  "  Si  la  couleur 
manque  au  toucher,  il  nous  fournit  en  revanche  une  notion 
que  Voe.il  seul  ne  peut  nous  donner,  et  qui  a  une  valeur 
esthetique  considerable,  celle  du  doux,  du  soyeux  du  poll. 
Ce  qui  caracterise  la  beaute  du  velours,  c'est  sa  douceur  au 
toucher  non  mains  que  son  brillant.  Dans  Videe  que  nous 
nous  faisons  de  la  beaute  d'une  femme,  le  veloute  de  sa  peau 
entre  comme  clement  essentiel" 
"  Cliacun  de  nous  probablement  avec  un  peu  d' attention  se 
rappellera  des  jouissances  du  gout,  qui  out  etc  de  veritables 
jouissances  esthetiques."  x  And  he  recounts  how  a  glass  of 
milk  drunk  by  him  in  the  mountains  gave  him  aesthetic 
enjoyment. 
So  it  turns  out  that  the  conception  of  art  as  consisting 
in  making  beauty  manifest  is  not  at  all  so  simple  as  it  seemed, 
especially  now,  when  in  this  conception  of  beauty  are 
included  our  sensations  of  touch  and  taste  and  smell,  as 
they  are  by  the  latest  aesthetic  writers. 
spects  tasteful.  The  principle  of  the  Art  of  Taste  (wliicli  goes  beyond 
the  so-called  Art  of  Cookery)  is  therefore  this  :  All  that  is  eatable 
should  be  treated  as  the  symbol  of  some  Idea,  and  always  in  harmony 
with  the  Idea  to  be  expressed. 
1  If  the  sense  of  touch  lacks  colour,  it  gives  us,  on  the  other  hand, 
a  notion  which  the  eye  alone  cannot  afford,  and  one  of  considerable 
esthetic  value,  namely,  that  of  softness,  silkiness,  polish.  The  beauty 
of  velvet  is  characterised  not  less  by  its  softness  to  the  touch  than  by 
its  lustre.  In  the  idea  we  form  of  a  woman's  beauty,  the  softness  of her  skin  enters  as  an  essential  element. 
Each  of  us  probably,  with  a  little  attention,  can  recall  pleasures  of 
taste  which  have  been  real  aesthetic  pleasures. 
