WHAT  IS  ART?  21 
were  Sulzer,  Mendelssohn,  and  Moritz.  They,  in  con 
tradiction  to  Baurngarten's  main  position,  recognise  as  the 
aim  of  art,  not  beauty,  but  goodness.  Thus  Sulzer 
(1720-1777)  says  that  only  that  can  be  considered  beautiful 
which  contains  goodness.  According  to  his  theory,  the  aim 
of  the  whole  life  of  humanity  is  welfare  in  social  life.  This 
is  attained  by  the  education  of  the  moral  feelings,  to 
which  end  art  should  be  subservient.  Beauty  is  that 
which  evokes  and  educates  this  feeling. 
Beauty  is  understood  almost  in  the  same  way  by 
Mendelssohn  (1729-1786).  According  to  him,  art  is  the 
carrying  forward  of  the  beautiful,  obscurely  recognised  by 
feeling,  till  it  becomes  the  true  and  good.  The  aim  of  art 
is  moral  perfection.1 
For  the  aestheticians  of  this  school,  the  ideal  of  beauty 
is  a  beautiful  soul  in  a  beautiful  body.  So  that  these 
aestheticians  completely  wipe  out  Baumgarten's  division  of 
the  Perfect  (the  Absolute),  into  the  three  forms  of  Truth, 
Goodness,  and  Beauty ;  and  Beauty  is  again  united  with  the 
Good  and  the  True. 
But  this  conception  is  not  only  not  maintained  by  the  later 
aestheticians,  but  the  aesthetic  doctrine  of  Winckelmann 
arises,  again  in  complete  opposition.  This  divides  the  mission 
of  art  from  the  aim  of  goodness  in  the  sharpest  and  most 
positive  manner,  makes  external  beauty  the  aim  of  art,  and 
even  limits  it  to  visible  beauty. 
According  to  the  celebrated  work  of  Winckelmann  (1717- 
1767),  the  law  and  aim  of  all  art  is  beauty  only,  beauty 
quite  separated  from  and  independent  of  goodness.  There 
are  three  kinds  of  beauty : — (1)  beauty  of  form,  (2)  beauty 
of  idea,  expressing  itself  in  the  position  of  the  figure  (in 
plastic  art),  (3)  beauty  of  expression,  attainable  only  when 
the  two  first  conditions  are  present.  This  beauty  of  ex 
pression  is  the  highest  aim  of  art,  and  is  attained  in 
3  Schasler,  p.  369. 
