WHAT  IS  ART?  23 
one.  So  that,  according  to  Hutcheson,  beauty  does  not 
always  correspond  with  goodness,  but  separates  from  it  and 
is  sometimes  contrary  to  it.1 
According  to  Home,  Lord  Kames  (1696-1782),  beauty  is 
that  which  is  pleasant.  Therefore  beauty  is  denned  by  taste 
alone.  The  standard  of  true  taste  is  that  the  maximum  of 
richness,  fulness,  strength,  and  variety  of  impression  should 
be  contained  in  the  narrowest  limits.  That  is  the  ideal  of 
a  perfect  work  of  art. 
According  to  Burke  (1729-1797 — "Philosophical  Inquiry 
into  the  Origin  of  our  Ideas  of  the  Sublime  and  Beautiful "), the  sublime  and  beautiful,  which  are  the  aim  of  art,  have 
'their  origin  in  the  promptings  of  self-preservation  and  of 
society.  These  feelings,  examined  in  their  source,  are  means 
for  the  maintenance  of  the  race  through  the  individual.  The 
first  (self-preservation)  is  attained  by  nourishment,  defence, 
and  war ;  the  second  (society)  by  intercourse  and  propagation. 
Therefore  self-defence,  and  war,  which  is  bound  up  with  it, 
is  the  source  of  the  sublime  ;  sociability,  and  the  sex-instinct, 
which  is  bound  up  with  it,  is  the  source  of  beauty.2 
Such  were  the  chief  English  definitions  of  art  and  beauty 
in  the  eighteenth  century. 
During  that  period,  in  France,  the  writers  on  art  were  Pere 
Andr6  and  Batteux,  with  Diderot,  D'Alembert,  and,  to  some 
extent,  Voltaire,  following  later. 
According  to  Pere  Andre  ("  Essai  sur  le  Beau,"  1741),  there 
are  three  kinds  of  beauty — divine  beauty,  natural  beauty, 
and  artificial  beauty.3 
According  to  Batteux  (1713-1780),  art  consists  in 
imitating  the  beauty  of  nature,  its  aim  being  enjoyment.4 
Such  is  also  Diderot's  definition  of  art. 
1  Schasler,  p.  289.     Knight,  pp.  168,  169. 
2  R.    Kralik,     Weltschonheit,    Versuch  ewier  allgemeinen  Aesthetik, 
pp.  304-306. 
3  Knight,  p.  101.  4Schlaser,  p.  316. 
