i8  WHAT  IS  ART? 
ing  an  elegant  phraseology  and  now  a  pedantic  erudition.  .  .  . 
A  style  of  exposition  that  falls  into  none  of  these  three 
defects  but  it  is  truly  concrete,  and,  having  important  matter, 
expresses  it  in  clear  and  popular  philosophic  language,  can 
nowhere  be  found  less  frequently  than  in  the  domain  of 
aesthetics." l 
It  is  only  necessary,  for  instance,  to  read  Schasler's  own 
book  to  convince  oneself  of  the  justice  of  this  observation  of 
his. 
On  the  same  subject  the  French  writer  Yeron,  in  the 
preface  to  his  very  good  work  on  aesthetics,  says,  "  12  n'y  a  pas 
de  science,  qui  ait  eteplus  que  Vestlietique  livree  aux  reveries  des 
metapJiysiciens.  Depuis  Platonjusqu'  aux  doctrines  officielles 
de  nos  jours,  on  a  fait  de  I'art  je  ne  sais  quel  amalyame  de 
fantaisies  quintessences,  et  de  mysteres  transcendantaux  qui 
trouvent  lew  expression  supreme  dans  la  conception  absolue  dn 
Beau  ideal,  prototype  immuable  et  divin  des  choses  reelles  " 
(L'esthetique,  1878,  p.  5).2 
If  the  reader  will  only  be  at  the  pains  to  peruse  the 
following  extracts,  defining  beauty,  taken  from  the  chief 
writers  on  aesthetics,  he  may  convince  himself  that  this 
censure  is  thoroughly  deserved. 
X"      I  shall  not  quote  the  definitions  of  beauty  attributed  to 
/      the    ancients, — Socrates,    Plato,    Aristotle,    etc.,    down    to 
Plotinus, — because,   in  reality,   the    ancients  had  not  that 
conception  of  beauty  separated  from  goodness  which  forms 
\       the  basis  and  aim  of  aesthetics  in  our  time.     By  referring  the 
1  M.   Schasler,   Kritische    Geschichte    der  Aesthetik,    1872,   vol.   i. 
p.  13. 
2  There  is  no  science  which  more  than  aesthetics  has  been  handed 
over  to  the  reveries  of  the  metaphysicians.     From  Plato  down  to  the 
received  doctrines   of  our  day,   people  have  made  of  art  a  strange 
amalgam  of  quintessential  fancies  and  transcendental  mysteries,  which 
find  their  supreme  expression  in  the  conception  of  an  absolute  ideal 
Beauty,  immutable  and  divine  prototype  of  actual  things. 
