22  WHAT  IS  ART? 
antique  art ;  modern  art  should  therefore  aim  at  imitating 
ancient  art.1 
Art  is  similarly  understood  by  Lessing,  Herder,  and  after 
wards  by  Goethe  and  by  all  the  distinguished  sestheticians 
of  Germany  till  Kant,  from  whose  day,  again,  a  different 
conception  of  art  commences. 
Native  aesthetic  theories  arose  during  this  period  in 
England,  France,  Italy,  and  Holland,  and  they,  though  not 
taken  from  the  German,  were  equally  cloudy  and  contra 
dictory.  And  all  these  writers,  just  like  the  German 
aestheticians,  founded  their  theories  on  a  conception  of  the 
Beautiful,  understanding  beauty  in  the  sense  of  a  something 
existing  absolutely,  and  mure  or  less  intermingled  with 
Goodness  or  having  one  arid  the  same  root.  In  England, 
almost  simultaneously  with  Baumgarten,  even  a  little  earlier, 
Shaftesbury,  Hutcheson,  Home,  Burke,  Hogarth,  and  others, 
wrote  on  art. 
According  to  Shaftesbury  (1670-1713),  "That  which  is 
beautiful  is  harmonious  and  proportionable,  what  is  har 
monious  and  proportionable  is  true,  and  what  is  at  once 
both  beautiful  and  true  is  of  consequence  agreeable  and 
good."  -  Beauty,  he  taught,  is  recognised  by  the  mind  only. 
God  is  fundamental  beauty;  beauty  and  goodness  proceed 
from  the  same  fount. 
So  that,  although  Shaftesbury  regards  beauty  as  being 
something  separate  from  goodness,  they  again  merge  into 
something  inseparable. 
According  to  Hutcheson  (1694-1747 — "Inquiry  into  the 
Original  of  our  Ideas  of  Beauty  and  Virtue"),  the  aim  of 
art  is  beauty,  the  essence  of  which  consists  in  evoking  in  us 
the  perception  of  uniformity  amid  variety.  In  the  recogni 
tion  of  what  is  art  we  are  guided  by  "  an  internal  sense." 
This  internal  sense  may  be  in  contradiction  to  the  ethical 
1  Scliasler,  pp.  388-390. 
"  Knight,  Philosophy  of  the  Beautiful,  i.  pp.  165,  166. 
