WHAT  IS  ART?  25 
these  two  means  of  perception,  there  is  yet  the  judging 
capacity  (Urteilskraft),  which  forms  judgments  without 
reasonings  and  produces  pleasure  without  desire  (Urtheil 
ohne  Begriff  und  Vergniigen  ohne  JBegehren).  This  capacity 
is  the  basis  of  aesthetic  feeling.  Beauty,  according  to  Kant, 
in  its  subjective  meaning  is  that  which,  in  general  and 
necessarily,  without  reasonings  and  without  practical 
advantage,  pleases.  In  its  objective  meaning  it  is  the  form 
of  a  suitable  object  in  so  far  as  that  object  is  perceived 
without  any  conception  of  its  utility.1 
Beauty  is  defined  in  the  same  way  by  the  followers  of 
Kant,  among  whom  was  Schiller  (1759-1805).  According 
to  Schiller,  who  wrote  much  on  aesthetics,  the  aim  of  art  is, 
as  with  Kant,  beauty,  the  source  of  which  is  pleasure  with 
out  practical  advantage.  So  that  art  may  be  called  a  game, 
not  in  the  sense  of  an  unimportant  occupation,  but  in  the 
sense  of  a  manifestation  of  the  beauties  of  life  itself  without 
other  aim  than  that  of  beauty.2 
Besides  Schiller,  the  most  remarkable  of  Kant's  followers 
in  the  sphere  of  aesthetics  was  Wilhelm  Humboldt,  who, 
though  he  added  nothing  to  the  definition  of  beauty,  explained 
various  forms  of  it, — the  drama,  music,  the  comic,  etc.3 
After  Kant,  besides  the  second-rate  philosophers,  the 
writers  on  aesthetics  were  Fichte,  Schelling,  Hegel,  and  their 
followers.  Fichte  (1762-1814)  says  that  perception  of  the 
beautiful  proceeds  from  this  :  the  world — i.e.  nature — has 
two  sides :  it  is  the  sum  of  our  limitations,  and  it  is  the 
sum  of  our  free  idealistic  activity.  In  the  first  aspect  the 
world  is  limited,  in  the  second  aspect  it  is  free.  In  the  first 
aspect  every  object  is  limited,  distorted,  compressed,  confined 
• — and  we  see  deformity ;  in  the  second  we  perceive  its  inner 
completeness,  vitality,  regeneration — and  we  see  beauty.  So 
that  the  deformity  or  beauty  of  an  object,  according  to 
1  Schasler,  pp.  525-528.  2  Knight,  pp.  61-63. 
3  Schasler,  pp.  740-743. 
