24  WHAT  IS  ART? 
The  French  writers,  like  the  English,  consider  that  it  is  taste 
that  decides  what  is  beautiful.  And  the  laws  of  taste  are  not 
only  riot  laid  down,  but  it  is  granted  that  they  cannot  be  settled. 
The  same  view  was  held  by  D'Alembert  and  Voltaire.1 
According  to  the  Italian  aesthetician  of  that  period,  Pagano, 
art  consists  in  uniting  the  beauties'  dispersed  in  nature. The  capacity  to  perceive  these  beauties  is  taste,  the  capacity 
to  bring  them  into  one  whole  is  artistic  genius.  Beauty 
commingles  with  goodness,  so  that  beauty  is  goodness  made 
visible,  and  goodness  is  inner  beauty.2 
According  to  the  opinion  of  other  Italians  :  Muratori  (1672— 
1750), — "  Riflessioni  sopra  il  buon  gusto  intorno  le  science  e 
le  arti," — and  especially  Spaletti,3 — "  Saggio  sopra  la  bettezza" 
(1765), — art  amounts  to  an  egotistical  sensation,  founded  (as 
with  Burke)  on  the  desire  for  self-preservation  and  society. 
Among  Dutch  writers,  Hemsterhuis  (1720-1790),  who 
had  an  influence  on  the  German  sestheticians  and  on  Goethe, 
is  remarkable.  According  to  him,  beauty  is  that  which  gives 
most  pleasure,  and  that  gives  most  pleasure  which  gives  us 
the  greatest  number  of  ideas  in  the  shortest  time.  Enjoy 
ment  of  the  beautiful,  because  it  gives  the  greatest  quantity 
of  perceptions  in  the  shortest  time,  is  the  highest  notion  to 
which  man  can  attain.4 
Such  were  the  aesthetic  theories  outside  Germany  during  the 
last  century.  In  Germany,  after  Winckelmann,  there  again 
arose  a  completely  new  aesthetic  theory,  that  of  Kant  (1724- 
1804),  which  more  than  all  others  clears  up  what  this  con 
ception  of  beauty,  and  consequently  of  art,  really  amounts  to. 
The  aesthetic  teaching  of  Kant  is  founded  as  follows : — 
Man  has  a  knowledge  of  nature  outside  him  and  of  himself 
in  nature.  In  nature,  outside  himself,  he  seeks  for  truth  ; 
in  himself  he  seeks  for  goodness.  The  first  is  an  affair  of 
pure  reason,  the  other  of  practical  reason  (free-will).  Besides 
1  Knight,  pp.  102-104.  2  R.  Kralik,  p.  124. 
3  Spaletti,  Schasler,  p.  328.  4  Schasler,  pp.  331-333. 
