26  WHAT  IS  ART? 
Fichte,  depends  on  the  point  of  view  of  the  observer. 
Beauty  therefore  exists,  not  in  the  world,  but  in  the  beautiful 
soul  (schoner  Geist).  Art  is  the  manifestation  of  this 
beautiful  soul,  and  its  aim  is  the  education,  not  only  of  the 
mind — that  is  the  business  of  the  savant  •  not  only  of  the 
heart — that  is  the  affair  of  the  moral  preacher ;  but  of  the 
whole  man.  And  so  the  characteristic  of  beauty  lies,  not 
in  anything  external,  but  in  the  presence  of  a  beautiful  soul 
in  the  artist.1 
Following  Fichte,  and  in  the  same  direction,  Friedrich 
Schlegel  and  Adam  Miiller  also  denned  beauty.  According 
to  Schlegel  (1772-1829),  beauty  in  art  is  understood  too 
incompletely,  one-sidedly,  and  disconnectedly.  Beauty  exists 
not  only  in  art,  but  also  in  nature  and  in  love ;  so  that  the 
truly  beautiful  is  expressed  by  the  union  of  art,  nature,  and 
love.  Therefore,  as  inseparably  one  with  aesthetic  art, 
Schlegel  acknowledges  moral  and  philosophic  art.-' 
According  to  Adam  Miiller  (1779-1829),  there  are  two 
kinds  of  beauty ;  the  one,  general  beauty,  which  attracts 
people  as  the  sun  attracts  the  planet — this  is  found  chiefly  in 
antique  art — and  the  other,  individual  beauty,  which  results 
from  the  observer  himself  becoming  a  sun  attracting  beauty, 
— this  is  the  beauty  of  modern  art.  A  world  in  which  all 
contradictions  are  harmonised  is  the  highest  beauty.  Every 
work  of  art  is  a  reproduction  of  this  universal  harmony.3 
The  highest  art  is  the  art  of  life.4 
!N"ext  after  Fichte  and  his  followers  came  a  contemporary 
of  his,  the  philosopher  Schelling  (1775-1854),  who  has  had 
a  great  influence  on  the  aesthetic  conceptions  of  our  times. 
According  to  Schilling's  philosophy,  art  is  the  production 
or  result  of  that  conception  of  things  by  which  the  subject 
becomes  its  own  object,  or  the  object  its  own  subject. 
Beauty  is  the  perception  of  the  infinite  in  the  finite.  And 
1  Schasler,  pp.  769-771.  "  Schasler,  pp.  786,  787. 
3  Kralik,  p.  148.  4  Kralik,  p.  820. 
