32  WHAT  IS  ART? 
supposing  beauty  to  exist  in  the  direct  and  free  manifesta 
tion  of  the  divine  Idea  revealing  itself  in  sense  forms.1 
LeVeque  was  a  follower  of  Schelling  and  Hegel.  He 
holds  that  beauty  is  something  invisible  behind  nature — a 
force  or  spirit  revealing  itself  in  ordered  energy.2 
Similar  vague  opinions  about  the  nature  of  beauty  were 
expressed  by  the  French  metaphysician  Kavaisson,  who 
considered  beauty  to  be  the  ultimate  aim  and  purpose  of  the 
world.  "  La  beaut e  la  plus  divine  et  principalement  la  plus 
parfaite  contient  le  secret  du  monde."5  And  again: — " Le 
monde  entier  est  Voeuvre  d'une  beaute  absolue,  qui  n'est  la 
cause  des  choses  que  par  V amour  qu'elle  met  en  elles." 
I  purposely  abstain  from  translating  these  metaphysical 
expressions,  because,  however  cloudy  the  Germans  may  be, 
the  French,  once  they  absorb  the  theories  of  the  Germans 
and  take  to  imitating  them,  far  surpass  them  in  uniting 
heterogeneous  conceptions  into  one  expression,  and  putting 
forward  one  meaning  or  another  indiscriminately.  For 
instance,  the  French  philosopher  Renouvier,  when  discussing 
beauty,  says: — " Ne  craignons pas  de  dire  qu'une  verite  qui 
ne  serait  pas  belle,  ne  serait  qu'un  jeu  logique  de  notre  esprit 
et  que  la  seule  verite  solide  et  digne  de  ce  nom  c'est  la  beaute. "  4 Besides  the  aesthetic  idealists  who  wrote  and  still  write 
under  the  influence  of  German  philosophy,  the  following 
recent  writers  have  also  influenced  the  comprehension  of  art 
and  beauty  in  France :  Taine,  Guyau,  Cherbuliez,  Coster, 
and  Veron. 
According  to  Taine  (1828-1893),  beauty  is  the  manifesta 
tion  of  the  essential  characteristic  of  any  important  idea 
more  completely  than  it  is  expressed  in  reality.5 
Guyau  (1854-1888)  taught  that  beauty  is  not  something 
exterior  to  the  object  itself, — is  not,  as  it  were,  a  parasitic 
1  Knight,  pp.  118,  119.  2  Knight,  pp.  123,  124. 
3  La philosophie  en  France,  p.  232.         4  Du  fondement  de  I 'induction. 
5  Philosophic  de  Part,  vol.  i.  1893,  p.  47. 
