30  WHAT  IS  ART? 
not  for  its  mythological  connection  with  Iris  or  Noah's 
rainbow.1 
Another  opponent  of  Hegel  was  Schopenhauer,  who 
denied  Hegel's  whole  system,  his  aesthetics  included. 
According  to  Schopenhauer  (1788-1860),  Will  objectivizes 
itself  in  the  world  on  various  planes;  and  although  the 
higher  the  plane  on  which  it  is  objectivized  the  more 
beautiful  it  is,  yet  each  plane  has  its  own  beauty.  Re 
nunciation  of  one's  individuality  and  contemplation  of  one 
of  these  planes  of  manifestation  of  Will  gives  us  a  per 
ception  of  beauty.  All  men,  says  Schopenhauer,  possess 
the  capacity  to  objectivize  the  Idea  on  different  planes. 
The  genius  of  the  artist  has  this  capacity  in  a  higher  degree, 
and  therefore  makes  a  higher  beauty  manifest.2 
After  these  more  eminent  writers  there  followed,  in 
Germany,  less  original  and  less  influential  ones,  such  as 
Hartmann,  Kirkmann,  Schnasse,  and,  to  some  extent, 
Helmholtz  (as  an  sesthetician),  Bergmann,  Jungmann,  and  an 
innumerable  host  of  others. 
According  to  Hartmann  (1842),  beauty  lies,  not  in  the 
external  world,  nor  in  "  the  thing  in  itself,"  neither  does  it 
reside  in  the  soul  of  man,  but  it  lies  in  the  "seeming" 
(Schein)  produced  by  the  artist.  The  thing  in  itself  is  not 
beautiful,  but  is  transformed  into  beauty  by  the  artist.8 
According  to  Schnasse  (1798-1875),  there  is  no  perfect 
beauty  in  the  world.  In  nature  there  is  only  an  approach 
towards  it.  Art  gives  what  nature  cannot  give.  In  the 
energy  of  the  free  ego,  conscious  of  harmony  not  found  in 
nature,  beauty  is  disclosed.4 
Kirkmann  wrote  on  experimental  aesthetics.  All  aspects 
of  history  in  his  system  are  joined  by  pure  chance.  Thus, 
according  to  Kirkmann  (1802-1884),  there  are  six  realms 
of  history : — The  realm  of  Knowledge,  of  Wealth,  of 
1  Schasler,  pp.  1097-1100,  2  Schasler,  pp.  1124,  1107. 
3  Knight,  pp.  81,  82.  4  Knight,  p.  83. 
