28  WHAT  IS  ART? 
beautiful  has  only  a  spiritual  content.  But  the  spiritual 
must  appear  in  sensuous  form.  The  sensuous  manifestation 
of  spirit  is  only  appearance  (schein),  and  this  appearance 
is  the  only  reality  of  the  beautiful.  Art  is  thus  the  production 
of  this  appearance  of  the  Idea,  and  is  a  means,  together  with 
religion  and  philosophy,  of  bringing  to  consciousness  and 
of  expressing  the  deepest  problems  of  humanity  and  the 
highest  truths  of  the  spirit. 
Truth  and  beauty,  according  to  Hegel,  are  one  and  the 
same  thing;  the  difference  being  only  that  truth  is  the 
Idea  itself  as  it  exists  in  itself,  and  is  thinkable.  The 
Idea,  manifested  externally,  becomes  to  the  apprehension 
not  only  true  but  beautiful.  The  beautiful  is  the  mani 
festation  of  the  Idea.1 
Following  Hegel  came  his  many  adherents,  Weisse, 
Arnold  Ruge,  Rosenkrantz,  Theodor  Vischer  and  others. 
According  to  Weisse  (1801-1867),  art  is  the  introduction 
(Eiribildung)  of  the  absolute  spiritual  reality  of  beauty 
into  external,  dead,  indifferent  matter,  the  perception  of 
which  latter  apart  from  the  beauty  brought  into  it  pre 
sents  the  negation  of  all  existence  in  itself  (Negation  alles 
Filrsichseins). 
In  the  idea  of  truth,  Weisse  explains,  lies  a  contra 
diction  between  the  subjective  and  the  objective  sides  of 
knowledge,  in  that  an  individual  /  discerns  the  Universal. 
This  contradiction  can  be  removed  by  a  conception  that 
should  unite  into  one  the  universal  and  the  individual,  which 
fall  asunder  in  our  conceptions  of  truth.  Such  a  conception 
would  be  reconciled  (aufgehoben)  truth.  Beauty  is  such  a 
reconciled  truth.2 
According  to  Ruge  (1802-1880),  a  strict  follower  of 
Hegel,  beauty  is  the  Idea  expressing  itself.  The  spirit, 
contemplating  itself,  either  finds  itself  expressed  completely, 
1  Schasler,  pp.  946,  1085,  984,  985,  990. 
2  Schasler,  pp.  966,  655,  956. 
