34  WHAT  IS  ART? 
This  book  is  very  fantastic  and  very  illiterate,  but  is 
characteristic  in  the  positions  it  takes  up,  and  noticeable  on 
account  of  a  certain  success  it  is  having  with  the  younger 
generation  in  France. 
All  the  aesthetics  diffused  in  France  up  to  the  present  time 
are  similar  in  kind,  but  among  them 'Veion'sL'esthetique  (1878) forms  an  exception,  being  reasonable  and  clear.  That  work, 
though  it  does  not  give  an  exact  definition  of  art,  at  least 
rids  aesthetics  of  the  cloudy  conception  of  an  absolute  beauty, 
According  to  Yeron  (1825-1889),  art  is  the  manifestation 
of  emotion  transmitted  externally  by  a  combination  of  lines, 
forms,  colours,  or  by  a  succession  of  movements,  sounds,  or 
words  subjected  to  certain  rhythms.1 
In  England,  during  this  period,  the  writers  on  aesthetics 
define  beauty  more  and  more  frequently,  not  by  its  own 
qualities,  but  by  taste,  and  the  discussion  about  beauty  is 
superseded  by  a  discussion  on  taste. 
After  Reid  (1704-1796),  who  acknowledged  beauty  as 
being  entirely  dependent  on  the  spectator,  Alison,  in  "his Essay  on  the  Nature  and  Principles  of  Taste  (1790),  proved 
the  same  thing.  From  another  side  this  was  also  asserted 
by  Erasmus  Darwin  (1731-1802),  the  grandfather  of  the 
celebrated  Charles  Darwin. 
He  says  that  we  consider  beautiful  that  which  is  con 
nected  in  our  conception  with  what  we  love.  Richard 
Knight's  work,  An  Analytical  Inquiry  into  the  Principles  of 
Taste,  also  tends  in  the  same  direction. 
Most  of  the  English  theories  of  aesthetics  are  on  the  same 
lines.  The  prominent  writers  on  aesthetics  in  England 
during  the  present  century  have  been  Charles  Darwin,  (to 
some  extent),  Herbert  Spencer,  Grant  Allen,  Ker,  and 
Knight. 
According   to    Charles   Darwin   (1809-1882— Descent  of 
Man,  1871),  beauty  is  a  feeling  natural  not  only  to   man 
1  L'esthdtique,  p.  106. 
