36  WHAT  IS  ART? 
play ;  when  there  is  a  superfluity  of  physical  strength  man 
gives  himself  to  play  ;  when  there  is  a  superfluity  of  receptive 
power  man  gives  himself  to  art.  The  beautiful  is  that  which 
affords  the  maximum  of  stimulation  with  the  minimum  of 
waste.  Differences  in  the  estimation  of  beauty  proceed  from 
taste.  Taste  can  be  educated.  We  must  have  faith  in  the 
judgments  "of  the  finest-nurtured  and  most  discriminative  " 
men.  These  people  form  the  taste  of  the  next  generation.1 
According  to  Ker's  Essay  on  the  Philosophy  of  Art 
(1883),  beauty  enables  us  to  make  part  of  the  objective 
world  intelligible  to  ourselves  without  being  troubled  by 
reference  to  other  parts  of  it,  as  is  inevitable  for  science. 
So  that  art  destroys  the  opposition  between  the  one  and 
the  many,  between  the  law  and  its  manifestation,  between 
the  subject  and  its  object,  by  uniting  them.  Art  is  the 
revelation  and  vindication  of  freedom,  because  it  is  free 
from  the  darkness  and  incomprehensibility  of  finite  things.2 
According  to  Knight's  Philosophy  of  the  Beautiful, 
Part  II.  (1893),  beauty  is  (as  with  Schelling)  the  union  of 
object  and  subject,  the  drawing  forth  from  nature  of  that 
which  is  cognate  to  man,  and  the  recognition  in  oneself  of 
that  which  is  common  to  all  nature. 
The  opinions  on  beauty  and  on  Art  here  mentioned  are  far 
from  exhausting  what  has  been  written  on  the  subject.  And 
every  day  fresh  writers  on  aesthetics  arise,  in  whose  disquisi- 
tions  appear  the  same  enchanted  confusion  and  contradictori- 
ness  in  defining  beauty.  Some,  by  inertia,  continue  the 
mystical  aesthetics  of  Baumgarten  and  Hegel  with  sundry 
variations;  others  transfer  the  question  to  the  region  of 
subjectivity,  and  seek  for  the  foundation  of  the  beautiful  in 
questions  of  taste  ;  others — the  aestheticians  of  the  very  latest 
formation — seek  the  origin  of  beauty  in  the  laws  of  physi- 
ology ;  and  finally,  others  again  investigate  the  question 
quite  independently  of  the  conception  of  beauty.  Thus, 
1  Knight,  pp.  250-252.  2  Knight,  pp.  258,  259. 
