WHAT  IS  ART?  27 
the  chief  characteristic  of  works  of  art  is  unconscious  infinity. 
Art  is  the  uniting  of  the  subjective  with  the  objective,  of 
nature  with  reason,  of  the  unconscious  with  the  conscious, 
and  therefore  art  is  the  highest  means  of  knowledge. 
Beauty  is  the  contemplation  of  things  in  themselves  as  they 
exist  in  the  prototype  (In  den  Urbildern).  It  is  not  the 
artist  who  by  his  knowledge  or  skill  produces  the  beautiful, 
but  the  idea  of  beauty  in  him  itself  produces  it.1 
Of  Schelling's  followers  the  most  noticeable  was  Solger 
( 1 780-1 819 —  Vorlesungen  iiber  Aesthetik).  According  to  him^ 
the  idea  of  beauty  is  the  fundamental  idea  of  everything. 
In  the  world  we  see  only  distortions  of  the  fundamental 
idea,  but  art,  by  imagination,  may  lift  itself  to  the  height  of 
this  idea.  Art  is  therefore  akin  to  creation.2 
According  to  another  follower  of  Schelling,  Krause 
(1781-1832),  true,  positive  beauty  is  the  manifestation  of  the 
Idea  in  an  individual  form ;  art  is  the  actualisation  of  the 
beauty  existing  in  the  sphere  of  man's  free  spirit.  The 
highest  stage  of  art  is  the  art  of  life,  which  directs  its  activity 
towards  the  adornment  of  life  so  that  it  may  be  a  beautiful 
abode  for  a  beautiful  man.3 
After  Schelling  and  his  followers  came  the  new  aesthetic 
doctrine  of  Hegel,  which  is  held  to  this  day,  consciously  by 
many,  but  by  the  majority  unconsciously.  This  teaching  is 
not  only  no  clearer  or  better  defined  than  the  preceding 
ones,  but  is,  if  possible,  even  more  cloudy  and  mystical. 
According  to  Hegel  (1770-1831),  God  manifests  himself 
in  nature  and  in  art  in  the  form  of  beauty.  God  expresses 
himself  in  two  ways  :  in  the  object  and  in  the  subject,  in 
nature  and  in  spirit.  Beauty  is  the  shining  of  the  Idea 
through  matter.  Only  the  soul,  and  what  pertains  to 
it,  is  truly  beautiful ;  and  therefore  the  beauty  of  nature  is 
only  the  reflection  of  the  natural  beauty  of  the  spirit — the 
1  Schasler,  pp.  828,  829,  834-841.  2  Scliasler,  p.  891. 
3  Schasler,  p.  917. 
