WHAT  IS  ART?  35 
but  also  to  animals,  and  consequently  to  the  ancestors  of 
man.  Birds  adorn  their  nests  and  esteem  beauty  in  their 
mates.  Beauty  has  an  influence  on  marriages.  Beauty 
includes  a  variety  of  diverse  conceptions.  The  origin  of 
the  art  of  music  is  the  call  of  the  males  to  the  females.1 
According  to  Herbert  Spencer  (b.  1820),  the  origin  of 
art  is  play,  a  thought  previously  expressed  by  Schiller.  In 
the  lower  animals  all  the  energy  of  life  is  expended  in  life- 
maintenance  and  race-maintenance ;  in  man,  however,  there 
remains,  after  these  needs  are  satisfied,  some  superfluous 
strength.  This  excess  is  used  in  play,  which  passes  over 
into  art.  Play  is  an  imitation  of  real  activity,  so  is  art. 
The  sources  of  esthetic  pleasure  are  threefold  : —  (1)  That 
"  which  exercises  the  faculties  affected  in  the  most  complete 
ways,  with  the  fewest  drawbacks  from  excess  of  exercise," 
(2)  "the  difference  of  a  stimulus  in  large  amount,  which 
awakens  a  glow  of  agreeable  feeling,"  (3)  the  partial  revival 
of  the  same,  with  special  combinations.2 
In  Todhunter's  Theory  of  the  Beautiful  (1872),  beauty  is infinite  loveliness,  which  we  apprehend  both  by  reason  and 
by  the  enthusiasm  of  love.  The  recognition  of  beauty  as 
being  such  depends  on  taste ;  there  can  be  no  criterion  for 
it.  The  only  approach  to  a  definition  is  found  in  culture. 
(What  culture  is,  is  not  defined.)  Intrinsically,  art — that 
which  affects  us  through  lines,  colours,  sounds,  or  words — 
is  not  the  product  of  blind  forces,  but  of  reasonable  ones, 
working,  with  mutual  helpfulness,  towards  a  reasonable 
aim.  Beauty  is  the  reconciliation  of  contradictions.3 
Grant  Allen  is  a  follower  of  Spencer,  and  in  his 
Physiological  ^Esthetics  (1877)  he  says  that  beauty  has  a 
physical  origin.  ^Esthetic  pleasures  come  from  the  con 
templation  of  the  beautiful,  but  the  conception  of  beauty  is 
obtained  by  a  physiological  process.  The  origin  of  art  is 
1  Knight,  p.  238.  "  Knight,  pp.  239,  240. 
3  Knight,  pp.  240-243. 
