WHAT  IS  ART?  33 
growth  on  it, — but  is  itself  the  very  blossoming  forth  of  that 
on  which  it  appears.  Art  is  the  expression  of  reasonable  and 
conscious  life,  evoking  in  us  both  the  deepest  consciousness 
of  existence  and  the  highest  feelings  and  loftiest  thoughts. 
Art  lifts  man  from  his  personal  life  into  the  universal  life, 
by  means,  not  only  of  participation  in  the  same  ideas  and 
beliefs,  but  also  by  means  of  similarity  in  feeling.1 
According  to  Cherbuliez,  art  is  an  activity,  (1)  satisfying 
our  innate  love  of  forms  (apparences),  (2)  endowing  these 
forms  with  ideas,  (3)  affording  pleasure  alike  to  our  senses, 
heart,  and  reason.  Beauty  is  not  inherent  in  objects,  but  is 
an  act  of  our  souls.  Eeauty  is  an  illusion;  there  is  no 
absolute  beauty.  But  what  we  consider  characteristic  and 
harmonious  appears  beautiful  to  us. 
Coster  held  that  the  ideas  of  the  beautiful,  the  good,  and 
the  true  are  innate.  These  ideas  illuminate  our  minds  and 
are  identical  with  God,  who  is  Goodness,  Truth,  and  Beauty. 
The  idea  of  Beauty  includes  unity  of  essence,  variety  of 
constitutive  elements,  and  order,  which  brings  unity  into 
the  various  manifestations  of  life.2 
For  the  sake  of  completeness,  I  will  further  cite  some  of 
the  very  latest  writings  upon  art. 
La  psychologie  du  Beau  et  de  I' Art, par  Mario  Pilo  (1895), 
says  that  beauty  is  a  product  of  our  physical  feelings.  The 
aim  of  art  is  pleasure,  but  this  pleasure  (for  some  reason)  he 
considers  to  be  necessarily  highly  moral. 
The  Essai  sur  Tart  contemporain,  par  Fierens  Gevaert 
(1897),  says  that  art  rests  on  its  connection  with  the  past, 
and  on  the  religious  ideal  of  the  present  which  the  artist 
holds  when  giving  to  his  work  the  form  of  his  individuality. 
Then  again,  Sar  Peladan's  L'art  idealiste  et  mystique  (1894) 
?ays  that  beauty  is  one  of  the  manifestations  of  God.     "  II  riy 
a  pas  d'autre  Realiti  que  Dim,  it  riy  a  pas  d'autre   Verite 
qua  Dieu,  il  riy  a  pas  d'autre  Beaute,  que  Dieu "  (p.  33). 
1  Knight,  p.  139-141.  2  Knight,  pp.  134. 3 
