WHAT  IS  ART?  29 
and  then  that  full  expression  of  itself  is  beauty ;  or  incom 
pletely,  and  then  it  feels  the  need  to  alter  this  imperfect 
expression  of  itself,  and  becomes  creative  art.1 
According  to  Yischer  (1807-1887),  beauty  is  the  Idea  in 
the  form  of  a  finite  phenomenon.  The  Idea  itself  is  not 
indivisible,  but  forms  a  system  of  ideas,  which  may  be 
represented  by  ascending  and  descending  lines.  The 
higher  the  idea  the  more  beauty  it  contains ;  but  even 
the  lowest  contains  beauty,  because  it  forms  an  essential 
link  of  the  system.  The  highest  form  of  the  Idea  is 
personality,  and  therefore  the  highest  art  is  that  which  has 
for  its  subject-matter  the  highest  personality.2 Such  were  the  theories  of  the  German  aestheticians  in  the 
Hegelian  direction,  but  they  did  not  monopolise  aesthetic 
dissertations.  In  Germany,  side  by  side  and  simultaneously 
with  the  Hegelian  theories,  there  appeared  theories  of 
beauty  not  only  independent  of  Hegel's  position  (that beauty  is  the  manifestation  of  the  Idea),  but  directly  con 
trary  to  this  view,  denying  and  ridiculing  it.  Such  was 
the  line  taken  by  Herbart  and,  more  particularly,  by 
Schopenhauer. 
According  to  Herbart  (1776-1841),  there  is  not,  and 
cannot  be,  any  such  thing  as  beauty  existing  in  itself. 
What  does  exist  is  only  our  opinion,  and  it  is  necessary  to 
find  the  base  of  this  opinion  (Asthetisches  Elementar- 
urtlieil).  Such  bases  are  connected  with  our  impressions. 
There  are  certain  relations  which  we  term  beautiful ; 
and  art  consists  in  finding  these  relations,  which 
are  simultaneous  in  painting,  the  plastic  art,  and 
architecture,  successive  and  simultaneous  in  music, 
and  purely  successive  in  poetry.  In  contradiction  to  the 
former  sestheticians,  Herbart  holds  that  objects  are  often 
beautiful  which  express  nothing  at  all,  as,  for  instance,  the 
rainbow,  which  is  beautiful  for  its  lines  and  colours,  and 
1  Schasler,  p.  1017.  -  Schasler,  pp.  1065,  1066. 
