44  WHAT  IS  ART? 
so  people  who  consider  the  aim  of  art  to  be  pleasure  cannot 
realise  its  true  meaning  and  purpose,  because  they  attribute 
to  an  activity,  the  meaning  of  which  lies  in  its  connection 
with  other  phenomena  of  life,  the  false  and  exceptional  aim 
of  pleasure.  People  come  to  understand  that  the  meaning 
of  eating  lies  in  the  nourishment  of  the  body  only  when 
they  cease  to  consider  that  the  object  of  that  activity  is 
pleasure.  And  it  is  the  same  with  regard  to  art.  People 
will  come  to  understand  the  meaning  of  art  only  when  they 
cease  to  consider  that  the  aim  of  that  activity  is  beauty,  i.e. 
pleasure.  The  acknowledgment  of  beauty  (i.e.  of  a  certain 
kind  of  pleasure  received  from  art)  as  being  the  aim  of  art, 
not  only  fails  to  assist  us  in  finding  a  definition  of  what 
art  is,  but,  on  the  contrary,  by  transferring  the  question 
into  a  region  quite  foreign  to  art  (into  metaphysical, 
psychological,  physiological,  and  even  historical  discussions 
as  to  why  such  a  production  pleases  one  person,  and  such 
another  displeases  or  pleases  someone  else),  it  renders  such 
definition  impossible.  And  since  discussions  as  to  why  one 
man  likes  pears  and  another  prefers  meat  do  not  help  towards 
finding  a  definition  of  what  is  essential  in  nourishment,  so 
the  solution  of  questions  of  taste  in  art  (to  which  the 
discussions  on  art  involuntarily  come)  not  only  doos  not 
help  to  make  clear  what  this  particular  human  activity 
which  we  call  art  really  consists  in,  but  renders  such 
elucidation  quite  impossible,  until  we  rid  ourselves  of  a 
conception  which  justifies  every  kind  of  art,  at  the  cost  of 
confusing  the  whole  matter. 
To  the  question,  What  is  this  art,  to  which  is  offered  up 
the  labour  of  millions,  the  very  lives  of  men,  and  even 
morality  itself  ?  we  have  extracted  replies  from  the  existing 
aesthetics,  which  all  amount  to  this :  that  the  aim  of  art  is 
beauty,  that  beauty  is  recognised  by  the  enjoyment  it  gives, 
and  that  artistic  enjoyment  is  a  good  and  important  thing, 
because  it  is  enjoyment.  In  a  word,  that  enjoyment  is  good 
