WHAT  IS  ART?  43 
when,  as  in  our  days,  it  knows  that  it  is  considered  infallible, 
may  be  seen  by  what  is  being  done  in  the  art  of  our  circle 
to-day. 
So  that  the  theory  of  art,  founded  on  beauty,  expounded 
by  aesthetics,  and,  in  dim  outline,  professed  by  the  public,  is 
nothing  but  the  setting  up  as  good,  of  that  which  has  pleased 
and  pleases  us,  i.e.  pleases  a  certain  class  of  people. 
In  order  to  define  any  human  activity,  it  is  necessary  to 
understand  its  sense  and  importance.  And,  in  order  to  do 
that,  it  is  primarily  necessary  to  examine  that  activity  in 
itself,  in  its  dependence  on  its  causes,  and  in  connection 
with  its  effects,  and  not  merely  in  relation  to  the  pleasure 
we  can  get  from  it. 
If  we  say  that  the  aim  of  any  activity  is  merely  our 
pleasure,  and  define  it  solely  by  that  pleasure,  our  definition 
will  evidently  be  a  false  one.  But  this  is  precisely  what 
has  occurred  in  the  efforts  to  define  art.  Now,  if  we 
consider  the  food  question,  it  will  not  occur  to  anyone  to 
affirm  that  the  importance  of  food  consists  in  the  pleasure 
we  receive  when  eating  it.  Everyone  understands  that  the 
satisfaction  of  our  taste  cannot  serve  as  a  basis  for  our 
definition  of  the  merits  of  food,  and  that  we  have  therefore 
no  right  to  presuppose  that  the  dinners  with  cayenne  pepper, 
Limburg  cheese,  alcohol,  etc.,  to  which  we  are  accustomed 
and  which  please  us,  form  the  very  best  human  food. 
And  in  the  same  way,  beauty,  or  that  which  pleases  us, 
can  in  no  sense  serve  as  the  basis  for  the  definition  of  art ; 
nor  can  a  series  of  objects  which  afford  us  pleasure  serve  as 
the  model  of  what  art  should  be. 
To  see  the  aim  and  purpose  of  art  in  the  pleasure  we  get 
from  it,  is  like  assuming  (as  is  done  by  people  of  the  lowest 
moral  development,  e.g.  by  savages)  that  the  purpose  and 
aim  of  food  is  the  pleasure  derived  when  consuming  it. 
Just  as  people  who  conceive  the  aim  and  purpose  of  food 
to  be  pleasure  cannot  recognise  the  real  meaning  of  eating, 
