40  WHAT  IS  ART? 
beauty  either  as  something  mystical  or  metaphysical,  or  as 
a  special  kind  of  enjoyment. 
What  then  is  this  conception  of  beauty,  so  stubbornly 
held  to  by  people  of  our  circle  and  day  as  furnishing  a 
definition  of  art? 
In  the  subjective  aspect,  we  call  beauty  that  which 
supplies  us  with  a  particular  kind  of  pleasure. 
In  the  objective  aspect,  we  call  beauty  something 
absolutely  perfect,  and  we  acknowledge  it  to  be  so  only 
because  we  receive,  from  the  manifestation  of  this  absolute 
perfection,  a  certain  kind  of  pleasure ;  so  that  this  objective 
definition  is  nothing  but  the  subjective  conception  differently 
expressed.  In  reality  both  conceptions  of  beauty  amount 
to  one  and  the  same  thing,  namely,  the  reception  by  us  of 
a  certain  kind  of  pleasure,  i.e.  we  call  "beauty"  that  which 
pleases  us  without  evoking  in  us  desire. 
Such  being  the  position  of  affairs,  it  would  seem  only 
natural  that  the  science  of  art  should  decline  to  content 
itself  with  a  definition  of  art  based  on  beauty  (i.e.  on  that 
which  pleases),  arid  seek  a  general  definition,  which  should 
apply  to  all  artistic  productions,  and  by  reference  to  which 
we  might  decide  whether  a  certain  article  belonged  to  the 
realm  of  art  or  not.  But  no  such  definition  is  supplied,  as 
the  reader  may  see  from  those  summaries  of  the  aesthetic 
theories  which  I  have  given,  and  as  he  may  discover  even 
more  clearly  from  the  original  aesthetic  works,  if  he  will  be 
at  the  pains  to  read  them.  All  attempts  to  define  absolute 
beauty  in  itself — whether  as  an  imitation  of  nature,  or  as 
suitability  to  its  object,  or  as  a  correspondence  of  parts,  or  as 
symmetry,  or  as  harmony,  or  as  unity  in  variety,  etc. — 
either  define  nothing  at  all,  or  define  only  some  traits  of 
some  artistic  productions,  and  are  far  from  including  all 
that  everybody  has  always  held,  and  still  holds,  to  be  art. 
There  is  no  objective  definition  of  beauty.  The  existing 
definitions,  (both  the  metaphysical  and  the  experimental), 
