42  WHAT  IS  ART? 
The  other  day  I  was  reading  a  far  from  ill-written  book 
by  Folgeldt.  Discussing  the  demand  for  morality  in  works 
of  art,  the  author  plainly  says  that  we  must  not  demand 
morality  in  art.  And  in  proof  of  this  he  advances  the  fact 
that  if  we  admit  such  a  demand,  Shakespear's  Romeo  and 
Juliet  and  Goethe's  Wilhelm  Meister  would  not  fit  into  the 
definition  of  good  art;  but  since  both  these  books  are 
included  in  our  canon  of  art,  he  concludes  that  the  demand  is 
unjust.  And  therefore  it  is  necessary  to  find  a  definition  of 
art  which  shall  fit  the  works ;  and  instead  of  a  demand  for 
morality,  Folgeldt  postulates  as  the  basis  of  art  a  demand 
for  the  important  (Bedeutungsvolles). 
All  the  existing  aesthetic  standards  are  built  on  this  plan. 
Instead  of  giving  a  definition  of  true  art,  and  then  deciding 
what  is  and  what  is  not  good  art  by  judging  whether  a 
work  conforms  or  does  not  conform  to  the  definition,  a 
certain  class  of  works,  which  for  some  reason  please  a  certain 
circle  of  people,  is  accepted  as  being  art,  and  a  definition  of 
art  is  then  devised  to  cover  all  these  productions.  I  recently 
came  upon  a  remarkable  instance  of  this  method  in  a  very 
good  German  work,  The  History  of  Art  in  the  Nineteenth 
Century,  by  Muther.  Describing  the  pre-Eaphaelites,  the 
Decadents  and  the  Symbolists  (who  are  already  included  in 
the  canon  of  art),  he  not  only  does  not  venture  to  blame 
their  tendency,  but  earnestly  endeavours  to  widen  his 
standard  so  that  it  may  include  them  all,  they  appearing  to 
him  to  represent  a  legitimate  reaction  from  the  excesses  of 
realism.  No  matter  what  insanities  appear  in  art,  when 
once  they  find  acceptance  among  the  upper  classes  of  our 
society  a  theory  is  quickly  invented  to  explain  and  sanction 
them ;  just  as  if  there  had  never  been  periods  in  history  when 
certain  special  circles  of  people  recognised  and  approved 
false,  deformed,  and  insensate  art  which  subsequently  left 
no  trace  and  has  been  utterly  forgotten.  And  to  what 
lengths  the  insanity  and  deformity  of  art  may  go,  especially 
