WHAT  IS  ART?  41 
amount  only  to  one  and  the  same  subjective  definition  which 
(strange  as  it  seems  to  say  so)  is,  that  art  is  that  which  makes 
beauty  manifest,  and  beauty  is  that  which  pleases  (without 
exciting  desire).  Many  aestheticians  have  felt  the  insufficiency 
and  instability  of  such  a  definition,  and,  in  order  to  give  it 
a  firm  basis,  have  asked  themselves  Avhy  a  thing  pleases. 
And  they  have  converted  the  discussion  on  beauty  into 
a  question  concerning  taste,  as  did  Hutcheson,  Voltaire, 
Diderot,  and  others.  But  all  attempts  to  define  what  taste 
is  must  lead  to  nothing,  as  the  reader  may  see  both  from  the 
history  of  aesthetics  and  experimentally.  There  is  and  can 
be  no  explanation  of  why  one  thing  pleases  one  man  and 
displeases  another,  or  vice  versa.  So  that  the  whole  existing 
science  of  aesthetics  fails  to  do  what  we  might  expect  from 
it,  being  a  mental  activity  calling  itself  a  science,  namely, 
it  does  not  define  the  qualities  and  laws  of  art,  or  of  the 
beautiful  (if  that  be  the  content  of  art),  or  the  nature  of 
taste  (if  taste  decides  the  question  of  art  and  its  merit),  and 
then,  on  the  basis  of  such  definitions,  acknowledge  as  art 
those  productions  which  correspond  to  these  laws,  and  reject 
those  which  do  not  come  under  them.  But  this  science  of 
aesthetics  consists  in  first  acknowledging  a  certain  set  of 
productions  to  be  art  (because  they  please  us),  and  then 
framing  such  a  theory  of  art  that  all  those  productions  which 
please  a  certainTcTi'cle  of  people  should  fit  into  it.  There 
exists  an  art  canon,  according  to  which  certain  productions 
favoured  by  our  circle  are  acknowledged  as  being  art, — 
Phidias,  Sophocles,  Homer,  Titian,  Raphael,  Bach,  Beethoven, 
Dante,  Shakespear,  Goethe,  and  others, — and  the  aesthetic 
laws  must  be  such  as  to  embrace  all  these  productions.  In 
aesthetic  literature  you  will  incessantly  meet  with  opinions 
on  the  merit  and  importance  of  art,  founded  not  on  any 
certain  laws  by  which  this  or  that  is  held  to  be  good  or  bad, 
but  merely  on  the  consideration  whether  this  art  tallies  with 
the  art  canon  we  have  drawn  up. 
