vi  INTRODUCTION. 
superstitions  it  upheld,  they  saw  that  it  depraved  and  per 
verted  men  by  dramas,  drinking-songs,  novels,  pictures,  and 
dances,  of  a  kind  that  awakened  man's  lower  nature.  Yet 
art  always  reasserted  her  sway,  and  to-day  we  are  told  by 
many  that  art  has  nothing  to  do  with  morality — that  "art 
should  be  followed  for  art's  sake." 
I  went  one  day,  with  a  lady  artist,  to  the  Bodkin  Art 
Gallery  in  Moscow.  In  one  of  the  rooms,  on  a  table,  lay  a 
book  of  coloured  pictures,  issued  in  Paris  and  supplied,  I 
believe,  to  private  subscribers  only.  The  pictures  were 
admirably  executed,  but  represented  scenes  in  the  private 
cabinets  of  a  restaurant.  Sexual  indulgence  was  the  chief 
subject  of  each  picture.  Women  extravagantly  dressed  and 
partly  undressed,  women  exposing  their  legs  and  breasts  to 
men  in  evening  dress;  men  and  women  taking  liberties 
with  each  other,  or  dancing  the  "  can-can,"  etc.,  etc.  My 
companion  the  artist,  a  maiden  lady  of  irreproachable 
conduct  and  reputation,  began  deliberately  to  look  at  these 
pictures.  I  could  not  let  my  attention  dwell  on  them  with 
out  ill  effects.  Such  things  had  a  certain  attraction  for  me, 
and  tended  to  make  me  restless  and  nervous.  I  ventured 
to  suggest  that  the  subject-matter  of  the  pictures  was 
objectionable.  But  my  companion  (who  prided  herself  on 
being  an  artist)  remarked  with  conscious  superiority,  that 
from  an  artist's  point  of  view  the  subject  was  of  no  con 
sequence.  The  pictures  being  very  well  executed  were 
artistic,  and  therefore  worthy  of  attention  and  study. 
Morality  had  nothing  to  do  with  art. 
Here  again  is  a  problem.  One  remembers  Plato's  advice 
not  to  let  our  thoughts  run  upon  women,  for  if  we  do  we 
shall  think  clearly  about  nothing  else,  and  one  knows  that 
to  neglect  this  advice  is  to  lose  tranquillity  of  mind;  but 
then  one  does  not  wish  to  be  considered  narrow,  ascetic,  or 
inartistic,  nor  to  lose  artistic  pleasures  which  those  around 
us  esteem  so  highly. 
