48  WHAT  IS  ART? 
of  intercourse,  distinguishing  it  from  intercourse  by  means 
of  words,  consists  in  this,  that  whereas  by  words  a  man 
transmits  his  thoughts  to  another,  by  means  of  art  he 
transmits  his  feelings. 
The  activity  of  art  is  based  on  the  fact  that  a  man, 
receiving  through  his  sense  of  hearing  or  sight  another 
man's  expression  of  feeling,  is  capable  of  experiencing  the 
•emotion  which  moved  the  man  who  expressed  it.  To  take 
the  simplest  example  :  one  man  laughs,  and  another,  who 
hears,  becomes  merry;  or  a  man  weeps,  and  another,  who 
hears,  feels  sorrow.  A  man  is  excited  or  irritated,  and 
•another  man,  seeing  him,  comes  to  a  similar  state  of  mind. 
By  his  movements,  or  by  the  sounds  of  his  voice,  a  man 
expresses  courage  and  determination,  or  sadness  and  calm 
ness,  and  this  state  of  mind  passes  on  to  others.  A  man 
suffers,  expressing  his  sufferings  by  groans  and  spasms, 
and  this  suffering  transmits  itself  to  other  people  ;  a  man 
expresses  his  feeling  of  admiration,  devotion,  fear,  respect,  or 
love  to  certain  objects,  persons,  or  phenomena,  and  others 
are  infected  by  the  same  feelings  of  admiration,  devotion, 
fear,  respect,  or  love  to  the  same  objects,  persons,  and 
phenomena. 
And  it  is  on  this  capacity  of  man  to  receive  another  man's 
expression  of  feeling,  and  experience  those  feelings  himself, 
that  the  activity  of  art  is  based. 
If  a  man  infects  another  or  others,  directly,  immediately,  by 
his  appearance,  or  by  the  sounds  he  gives  vent  to  at  the  very 
time  he  experiences  the  feeling ;  if  he  causes  another  man 
to  yawn  when  he  himself  cannot  help  yawning,  or  to  laugh 
or  cry  when  he  himself  is  obliged  to  laugh  or  cry,  or  to  suffer 
when  he  himself  is  suffering — that  does  not  amount  to  art. 
Art  begins  when  one  person,  with  the  object  of  joining 
another  or  others  to  himself  in  one  and  the  same  feeling, 
expresses  that  feeling  by  certain  external  indications.  To 
take  the  simplest  example  :  a  boy,  having  experienced,  let  us 
