WHAT  IS  ART?  47 
reckon  as  art  the  preparation  of  handsome  clothes,  pleasant 
scents,  and  even  of  victuals. 
The  experimental  definition  (2),  which  makes  art  consist 
in  the  expression  of  emotions,  is  inexact,  because  a  man  may 
express  his  emotions  by  means  of  lines,  colours,  sounds,  or 
words,  and  yet  may  not  act  on  others  by  such  expression ; 
and  then  the  manifestation  of  his  emotions  is  not  art. 
The  third  definition  (that  of  Sully)  is  inexact,  because 
in  the  production  of  objects  or  actions  affording  pleasure 
to  the  producer  and  a  pleasant  emotion  to  the  spectators 
or  hearers  apart  from  personal  advantage,  may  be  included 
the  showing  of  conjuring  tricks  or  gymnastic  exercises, 
and  other  activities  which  are  not  art.  And,  further, 
many  things,  the  production  of  which  does  not  afford 
pleasure  to  the  producer,  and  the  sensation  received  from 
which  is  unpleasant,  such  as  gloomy,  heart-rending  scenes 
in  a  poetic  description  or  a  play,  may  nevertheless  be 
undoubted  works  of  art. 
The  inaccuracy  of  all  these  definitions  arises  from  the  fact 
that  in  them  all  (as  also  in  the  metaphysical  definitions)  the 
object  considered  is  the  pleasure  art  may  give,  and  not  the 
purpose  it  may  serve  in  the  life  of  man  and  of  humanity. 
In  order  correctly  to  define  art,  it  is  necessary,  first  of  all, 
to  cease  to  consider  it  as  a  means  to  pleasure,  and  to  consider . 
it  as  one  of  the  conditions  of  human  life.     Viewing  it  in 
this  way,  we  cannot  fail  to  observe  that  art  is  one  of  the 
means  of  intercourse  between  man  and  man. 
Every  work  of  art  causes  the  receiver  to  enter  into  a 
certain  kind  of  relationship  both  with  him  who  produced, 
or  is  producing,  the  art,  and  with  all  those  who,  simul 
taneously,  previously  or  subsequently,  receive  the  same 
artistic  impression. 
Speech,  transmitting  the  thoughts  and  experiences  of 
men,  serves  as  a  means  of  union  among  them,  and  art  acts 
in  a  similar  manner.  The  peculiarity  of  this  latter  means 
