WHAT  IS  ART?  51 
others  their  own  thoughts,  men  would  he  like  wild  beasts,  or 
like  Ivaspar  Hauser.1 
And  if  men  lacked  this  other  capacity  of  being  infected  by 
art,  people  might  be  almost  more  savage  still,  and,  above  all, 
more  separated  from,  and  more  hostile  to,  one  another. 
And  therefore  the  activity  of  art  is  a  most  important  one, 
as  important  as  the  activity  of  speech  itself,  and  as  generally 
diffused. 
We  are  accustomed  to  understand  art  to  be  only  what  we 
hear  and  see  in  theatres,  concerts,  and  exhibitions ;  together 
with  buildings,  statues,  poems,  novels.  .  .  .  But  all  this  is  but 
the  smallest  part  of  the  art  by  which  we  communicate  with 
each  other  in  life.  All  human  life  is  filled  with  works  of 
art  of  every  kind — from  cradle-song,  jest,  mimicry,  the 
ornamentation  of  houses,  dress  and  utensils,  up  to  church 
services,  buildings,  monuments,  and  triumphal  processions. 
It  is  all  artistic  activity.  So  that  by  art,  in  the  limited 
sense  of  the  word,  we  do  not  mean  all  human  activity 
transmitting  feelings,  but  only  that  part  which  we  for 
some  reason  select  from  it  and  to  which  we  attach  special 
importance. 
This  special  importance  has  always  been  given  by  all 
men  to  that  part  of  this  activity  which  transmits  feelings 
flowing  from  their  religious  perception,  and  this  small  part 
of  art  they  have  specifically  called  art,  attaching  to  it  the 
full  meaning  of  the  word. 
That  was  how  men  of  old — Socrates,  Plato,  and  Aristotle 
— looked  on  art.  Thus  did  the  Hebrew  prophets  and  the 
ancient  Christians  regard  art;  thus  it  was,  and  still  is, 
1  "The  foundling  ol'  Nuremberg,"  found  in  the  market-place  of that  town  on  26th  May  1828,  apparently  some  sixteen  years  old. 
He  spoke  little,  and  was  almost  totally  ignorant  even  of  common 
objects.  He  subsequently  explained  that  he  had  been  brought  up  in 
confinement  underground,  and  visited  by  only  one  man,  whom  he  saw 
but  seldom. — Trans. 
