88 Chapter 5 Art Through the AgesNo tour of the ancient art world would be
complete without a swing through Asia.Here, halfway around the globe from thegreat temples and pyramids of Egypt, othermighty empires rose and fell. Each left behindan artistic tradition as rich as those of theGreeks and Romans.
In this lesson, you will read about two of
those cultures. You will also view some of theart treasures they left behind.
ART OF ANCIENT INDIA
In the mid-1800s, railroad workers dig-
ging in the Indus River valley of present-day Pakistan made a remarkable discovery. They unearthed bits and pieces of a lost city. Ar-chaeologists later pieced together this ancientpuzzle. Their explorations revealed that thecity was once the center of a river civilizationthat had existed some 4,500 years earlier. Ithad achieved a splendor at least as great asthat of ancient Egypt.
Like the Egyptians, the people of the
Indus River valley worshiped animals andthe forces of nature. These beliefs were latercombined with others to form the foundationof the religion Hinduism ( hin-doo-iz-uhm).
Today, this faith has 700 million followers.
Sculpture
Among the gifts passed down by the
Indus River valley civilization was a knowl-edge of bronze casting. This sculptingmethod was used by later inhabitants of theregion to create the work in Figure 5–7. The
subject of this sculpture is Hanuman, king ofthe monkeys. According to Hindu myth,Hanuman helped the god Rama rescueRama’s wife from a demon’s evil clutches. 
Like other characters in Hindu legend,
Hanuman represents a human virtue ( vur-
chew). A virtue is a positive quality, in this
case loyalty. 
LESSON 3
Eastern ArtLESSON 3
/rhombus6Figure 5–7 Notice that the creature has the body of 
a human but a monkey’s head and tail. What does Hanuman’sposture tell you about his character?
Indian, Tamil Nadu. Standing Hanuman. Chola Period.
Eleventh century. Bronze. 64.5 cm (253⁄8/H11033). The Metropolitan
Museum of Art, New York, New York. Purchase, funds andbequests from various donors.
