WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sheets of sketch paper
●White construction paper or poster
board, 12 x 18 inches
●Collection of small natural objects
●Oil pastels
●Markers
●White glue
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Visit a park or other local area that might
make a good subject for a landscape.Make several sketches. Include importantfeatures such as plants, trees, houses, andhills. Show these as simple, flat shapes.Plan the picture to emphasize a particularobject or area as the center of interest.
2.Before leaving the area, collect small
objects in a plastic bag. Possibilities in-clude small twigs, pebbles, sand, bark,leaves, or dried grass. Avoid objects thatare likely to wilt or change in a few days,such as fresh flowers or insects.
3.Transfer your best sketch onto construc-
tion paper or poster board. Using oilpastels or markers, begin adding color.Apply hues that match the colors of thenatural objects you plan to use. 
4.Decide which areas of your composition
you will decorate with the objects youcollected. Choose objects whose naturaltextures suit the subject matter. Youmight use sand for a path. Attach theobjects with white glue. Make sure allareas of the composition are covered.
5.Step back and review the organization of
your work. Make sure the elements of artemphasize one part of the picture. If youlike, use drawing media to add buildings,
animals, or human figures to the scene.
6.When the glue is dry, display your work.
Lesson 2 Creating a Nature Scene 107/rhombus6Figure 6–5 Student work. A nature scene.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Identify the objects and
shapes in your landscape scene. Describethe setting.
●Analyze Explain how you organized your
picture to create a center of interest. Whichobject or area did you emphasize? Wheredid you use tactile and visual textures?
●Interpret Decide what feeling or mood
your work communicates to viewers. Find
out if viewers can identify the place yourpicture describes.
●Judge Tell whether you feel your work
succeeds. Explain your answer.Evaluating Y our Work
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation Analyze the original port-
folios of your peers. Select a few of their art-
works and form conclusions about formal
properties and historical and cultural contexts.How have they applied the elements andprinciples of art to communicate their ideas?Describe  particular themes they illustrated intheir artworks.Visual Art Journal
Develop ideas from the environ-
ment. Notice something specialabout nature. Observe the shapesof leaves, the color of the sky, thepattern of rain on your window. Illus-trate your ideas in your journal.