REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING●Colored construction paper
●Crayons or oil pastels
●Ruler or other straightedge
●Scissors, white glue
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Complete several sketches of city
skylines. Include overlapping buildingsof different sizes and shapes. Add detailssuch as windows and signs.
2.With the brush, cover the sheet of white
drawing paper evenly with water. Decidewhether your scene will take place atnight or during the day. Depending onyour choice, load a brush with a dark (fornight) or light hue of watercolor paint.Add color to the wet paper. Do not worrythat the color “bleeds,” or runs. In fact,you may wish to use two or more colors,allowing them to mix together.
3.Set your watercolor painting aside to dry. 
4.Referring to your sketches, cut out dif-
ferent building shapes from coloredconstruction paper. Use a straightedgeand scissors for this task. Cut largerbuildings from the darker paper andsmaller buildings from the lighter ones.
5.Arrange your cut-out buildings on the
dry watercolored sheet. About a third ofthe way down from the top of the sheet,start arranging the smaller, lighter-colored buildings. Place the darkerbuildings closer to the bottom of thesheet—in the “foreground.” Do these last,so that they overlap the lighter buildings.When you are satisfied with the place-
ment of your buildings, glue them down.
6.Draw windows, signs, and other details
with oil pastels or crayons.
Lesson 6 Creating a Mixed-Media Cityscape 175/rhombus6Figure 9–14 Student work. A mixed-media cityscape.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Does your picture look like a
city skyline?
●Analyze Do the sizes, colors, and
placement of your buildings create thefeeling of space? 
●Interpret Does the sky suggest a
particular time of day?
●Judge Are you pleased with your
picture? What do you like best about it?Evaluating Y our Work
Critical Evaluation. Analyze the original port-
folios of your peers. Select a few of their art-
works and form conclusions about formal
properties and historical and cultural contexts.How have they applied the elements and prin-ciples of art to communicate their ideas? Do younotice any form of improvements in their skills?Visual Art Journal
Express a variety of ideas based
on direct observation. Walk aroundyour neighborhood. Sketch details
of interesting shapes and objects,such as street lamps, park benches,fences, etc. Think of different ad-
jectives you could use to describeyour neighborhood.