took to the sky. Examine the painting. Much
of the work is given over to an endless ex-panse of blue-green water, its surface fleckedwith whitecaps. The centerpiece, of course, isa small boat. Did you notice that the craft’smast is missing? It and its lone occupant arein trouble as the boat bobs helplessly on thewater. The danger is made greater by a schoolof sharks circling the boat. Did you notice thecreatures’ black fins jutting above the water?Look even more carefully, and you will alsonotice a ship on the horizon. Its sails arebarely visible as gray shapes against thewhite of the clouds. The artist, it seems, hasprovided a faint ray of hope—or has he? It isup to you, the viewer, to decide how thisdrama unfolds. Will the ship rescue the manbefore it is too late? Are those on board evenaware of his presence?
Lesson 7 The Outdoors 177/rhombus6Figure 9–16 What do
you feel poses the greatestthreat to the man on the boat?
Winslow Homer. The Gulf
Stream. 1899. Oil on canvas. 71.4
/H11003124.8 cm (281⁄8/H11003491⁄8/H11033). The
Metropolitan Museum of Art,New York, New York. CatherineLorillard Wolfe Collection,Wolfe Fund, 1906.
Winslow Homer  (1836–1910)
Cultural connection. Winslow Homer was
a nineteenth-century American artist bestknown for his realistic and dramaticpaintings of the sea. Homer was born inBoston, Massachusetts, in 1836. At age 19,he worked as an apprentice to a lithogra-pher and then became a freelance illustratora few years later. During the American CivilWar, he illustrated scenes from the battle-
fields for Harper's Weekly magazine.
In 1866, Homer traveled to France and
stayed for nearly a year. His work was notnoticeably different upon his return. In 1881,however, a trip to Tynemouth, England, didevoke a change in his art. After visiting
Tynemouth, a small fishing port, the sea
became the focus of Homer's work (seeFigure 9–16 ). On returning to the United
States, Homer moved to Prouts Neck, acoastal fishing village in Maine. There, hecreated many of his most well-knownseascapes.
To learn more about Homer and his work,
click on Artist Profiles at art.glencoe.com .
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is a panorama? Describe the pano-
ramas in the two paintings on these pages.
2.Describe all the dangers facing the figure in
the seascape on this page.
