124 Chapter 7 Observing AnimalsDoes your family have a cat or dog?
Maybe you own a bird or horse. Perhaps youknow someone else who does. Animals,whether they are pets or roam wild, share ourenvironment, or surroundings. Like other 
objects in the environment, animals have longbeen a favorite subject of artists.
In the following lessons, you will learn
about different ways artists have portrayedanimals. This lesson will focus on the role ofanimals in earliest art.
ANIMALS AS SUBJECTS
Using animals as art subjects is as old as
art itself. For proof, look at the painting of ahorse in Figure 7–2. This picture is on the
wall of a cave in the Dordogne region ofFrance. Two boys came upon the cave whileplaying ball. The boys made their discoveryin 1941. The picture, however, is tens of thou-sands of years old. It dates back to the Old
Stone Age. This is the historical period that oc-
curred between 30,000 and 10,000 
B.C.Experts regard this painting as one of the
earliest artworks on record. Why did the firstartists make pictures of animals? The expertshave come up with likely answers to thisquestion by looking closely at the role ani-mals played in the environment of peoplelong ago. 
To pe ople of the Old Stone Age, animals
meant life. Their main source of food was theanimals around them. They wore the ani-mals’ pelts, or furs, to protect them from thecold. For these reasons, a successful hunt wasimportant; and the paintings may have beenused in a ritual, or ceremony, to bring luck.
Tools of the Early Painter
The environment of early artists not only
answers the question of why they made cave
paintings. It also answers the question of how.
Like artists today, they started with pigment,which often came from clay. Iron deposits inthe clay may account for the heavy presenceof red, yellow, and brown. The pigment wasthen mixed with animal fat, vegetable juice,
LESSON 1
Animals in Earliest ArtLESSON 1
/rhombus6Figure 7–2 This prehis-
toric cave painting is some-times called The Chinese
Horse. Animals shaped like
this one appear in laterChinese art.
Cave Painting. Lascaux,
Dordogne, France. Chinese Horse
(The Yellow Horse).c. 15,000–10,000 
B.C.
