Evaluating Y our WorkEvaluating Yo u r  W o r k●Magazines
●Colored markers
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Select a hero. Sketch several designs for
banners to honor your hero. Use straightor curved lines to divide each bannerdesign into three sections.
2.In each of the three sections, create
images or symbols that tell somethingabout your hero. For example, a bannerhonoring Paul Bunyan might includetrees, an ax, and a blue ox. Make yourdrawings large. Avoid small details.
3.Using a ruler or other straight edge,
transfer your best banner design to asheet of butcher paper. Fill the paper with your design. With scissors, trimaway the portions of the paper beyondthe banner’s outline. Divide the bannerinto three sections with straight or curvedpencil lines. Using your sketch as amodel, lightly draw the images andsymbols for each section.
4.Cut or tear shapes from sheets of colored
tissue paper. Overlap and glue thesedown to complete one section. Defineshapes and details with pen. Cut or tearpictures and words cut from magazinesto complete another section. Completethe third section using colored markers.Make certain to fill each section of yourbanner with color. Take care not to crossthe lines between sections. 
5.Place your banner on display. Ask class-
mates if they can identify your hero.
Lesson 8 Creating a Mixed-Media Banner 159●Describe Identify the images and
symbols in each of the three sections ofyour banner.
●Analyze Does your banner show a
variety of visual textures? In which section
of your banner do you think texture is bestdemonstrated?
●Interpret Could classmates identify the
hero your banner honors? What image orsymbol was most helpful to them inmaking this identification?
●Judge What is the best feature of 
your design?
There are different ways to choose what to
put into your portfolio. Y ou might select an art-work because:
●It shows your best example of composition.
●It demonstrates your growth in using a spe-
cific medium.
●It shows the skill you exhibited in making an
artwork.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEAS
/rhombus6Figure 8–17 Student work. Mixed-media banner.
For additional activities, check out
our Web site at art.glencoe.com .
There you will also find:
●Artist Profiles
●Interactive Games
●Museum Web Links
●Student Art Gallery