WHATYOUWILLDO
1.With a partner, brainstorm possible
historical figures as subjects for your tombpainting. Choose a person you know a lotabout. Think about objects and visual sym-bols that help define the person’s identity.Asymbol is an image used to stand for a
quality or idea. If you chose George Wash-
ington, for example, your symbols mightinclude an ax and a cherry tree. Jot downnotes about your subject and symbols.
2.Study the figures in Figure 5–5. Notice
the position of the head, shoulders, chest,arms, legs, and feet. Make pencil sketchesof your subject. Follow the same formulathe ancient Egyptian artist used.
3.Conduct an in-progress analysis of your
work. Transfer your best sketch to thedrawing paper. Make your figure largeenough to fill the page. In thebackground, draw boxes with roundedcorners. These are to contain yourhieroglyphics. In the boxes, draw abstractvisual symbols based on the notes youmade.
4.Complete your painting by mixing tints
and shades of tempera paint. Apply thecolors to your figure and background ob-jects. Carefully color the motifs in yourpattern.
5.Switch to fine-tipped black marker.
Lightly retrace the contours, or outlines
and surface ridges, of important shapes,
including body parts. Create a pattern onyour subject’s clothing. 
6.When your painting is dry, display it
alongside those of fellow students.Challenge classmates to identify thesubject of your work.
Lesson 2 Egyptian Tomb Painting 87/rhombus6Figure 5–6 Student work. Egyptian tomb
painting.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Is your painting based on a
figure from history? Did you includesymbols that would help your viewerpinpoint the person’s identity?
●Analyze Did you follow the rules of
Egyptian art for representing human bodyparts? Did you use a repeating pattern todecorate the person’s clothing? 
●Interpret Did you capture the character
of your figure? Were classmates able toidentify your person?
●Judge Do you consider your painting
successful? Why or why not?Evaluating Y our Work
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Response. Analyze the original artworks
of your peers. Study the Egyptian tomb paintingthey created and form conclusions about histor-ical contexts. For example, which historical figuredid they use as their subject? What symbols didthey use?Visual Art Journal
Describe the figure you portrayed
in your Egyptian tomb painting. Ex-plain why you chose this person.What details did you use to show hisor her character?