at Versailles (vuhr- sye), was named for the
Paris suburb where it was built. Study theroom. It is interesting not only for what it re-
veals about the king. It is also interesting forthe new art style it launched. That style wascalled Rococo (roh- koh-koh). This is an art
style of the 1700s that emphasized graceful movement, curving lines, and delicate colors.Rococo architecture relied on the heavy use—sometimes overuse—of pattern. Notice howevery surface is covered in one kind of richdecoration or another. What words wouldyou use to describe this room?
A H OME OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY
Compare the two buildings in Figures 9–6
and 9–7. What differences do you detect? 
Obviously, the house on this page has much
simpler and cleaner lines. The most strikingthing about it, though, is its location. It wasbuilt on a rocky ledge directly above a smallwaterfall. The house, designed by twentieth-century architect Frank Lloyd Wright, evenearned a nickname based on its unusual set-ting: “Fallingwater.”
Notice the way in which the house blends
into its natural surroundings. Its horizontallines echo the natural rock formations, its ver-tical ones the cascading water. Wright oncecommented, “A house should not be ona hill,
it should be ofa hill.” What do you think the
architect meant by these words? How is thisidea reflected in Figure 9–7?
Lesson 3 Architectural Design 169/rhombus6Figure 9–7 Notice the use of vertical and horizontal
lines on the exterior of this building. What would you expectthe inside of this house to look like?
Frank Lloyd Wright. Fallingwater House, Bear Run,
Pennsylvania. 1936. © 1997, The Frank Lloyd WrightFoundation, Scottsdale, Arizona.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.How is Rococo style captured in the Palace 
at Versailles?
2.How did architect Frank Lloyd Wright make
Fallingwater House feel like part of nature?
Prairie-Style Architecture
Historical connection. During the Industrial
Revolution of the 1800s, mass productionenabled the United States to become anindustrial society. With mass production,however, the level of artistic quality declined.In architecture, Frank Lloyd Wright
’s prairie
style was a reaction against this loss ofartistry.
The prairie style, was intended to promote
an old-fashioned lifestyle and a sense of artand individuality. Prairie houses were built lowto the ground, emphasized horizontal lines,and were designed to blend in with thelandscape.The interior featured an open floorplan where one room flowed into another.Wright’s later architecture reflected many ofthese design principles (see Figure 9–7 ).