offered a glimpse not only of an event but of
a season. This winter scene has been pre-served for over four centuries.
Examine the work. It shows a party of
hunters and their dogs. They are returninghome after a cold outing in the woods. A trioof birds huddle in the bare branches of thetrees above the hunters. Still farther overheadis a bleak sky that promises more snow. Yet,the scene is not gloomy. In fact, it is almostcheerful. Down below the hunters, on afrozen lake, townspeople merrily skate. 
Notice the suggestion of distance in the
painting. The artist has used several of thetechniques for capturing space covered onpage 16 in Chapter 1. Two of these are sizeand
placement. Observe how the trees in the back-
ground are smaller and placed higher up in thepicture plane than the hunters are. What othertechniques for suggesting space can you find?
Lesson 5 Art and the Seasons 113/rhombus6Figure 6–11 This work
by Pieter Bruegel shows winteractivities in the 1500s. Howhas the artist used color to por-tray a winter landscape?
Pieter Bruegel. Hunters in the
Snow. 1565. Oil on wood. 
117 /H11003162 cm (46 /H11003633⁄4/H11033).
Kunsthistorisches Museum,Vienna, Austria. Erich Lessing/
Art Resource, NY.
Sixteenth Century Flemish Art
Historical connection. You may be familiar
with the Italian Renaissance of the fifteenthand sixteenth centuries. Other parts ofEurope also experienced a Renaissanceduring this time period. In northern Europe,the cultural center was located inFlanders—an area found in modern-dayFrance, Belgium, and the Netherlands.
People who lived in this area were known
as Flemish.
Some of the most celebrated Flemish
painters include Jan van Eyck, Peter PaulRubens, and Pieter Bruegel.These artistswere masters of oil painting.They painted
scenes of the world around them using pre-cise, realistic detail and paying attention tolight and atmosphere. Figure 6-11 is an
example of Pieter Bruegel's work. Although
his impressive talent was not fully appreci-ated during his lifetime, Bruegel is now con-sidered the greatest Flemish painter of thesixteenth century. Compare Figure 6–10 with Bruegel’s painting.Which one do youthink is more realistic at illustrating a season? 
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What images and colors are linked with 
different seasons?
2.Which of these colors and images appear 
in the two works in this lesson? 
