3.Using a light pencil line, transfer your
line drawing to a sheet of white paper.Fill the page, as the Aboriginal artist hasdone in Figure 7–4. Letter a name foryour totem somewhere in your design.
4.Next, study the pattern of lines and dots
the Aboriginal artist has used. Notice howthis pattern adds texture to the painting.Think of a pattern that would go wellwith the animal you have selected. 
Practice making this pattern. Then fill in
the animal’s body using this pattern.
5.With oil pastels or crayons, go over all the
lines in your picture. This includes thelines that make up your pattern. Usepressure to make the lines bold so the oilpastels will resist the watercolor.
6.Finally, select contrasting colors of water-
color paint. Choose colors that will makeyour design stand out and emphasizeyour pattern. Using a large brush, applythese colors to the entire surface of yourpaper. Do not worry about painting overthe lines you made. The natural oils in theoil pastels or crayons will resist the paint.
Lesson 2 Creating a Totem 127/rhombus6Figure 7–5 Student work. A totem.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Explain what animal appears
in your totem. Tell what name you chose foryour totem and where it appears in the
design.
●Analyze Identify the pattern you used to
fill the shape of your animal.Tell what colorsof oil pastel you used and which colors ofwatercolor you selected. Explain whether
the colors emphasize your pattern.
●Interpret Write a brief paragraph
explaining what this animal symbolizes.
Explain why it makes a good totem.
●Judge Tell whether you think your work
is successful. Explain what you would dodifferently if you had a chance to do theproject over again.Evaluating Y our Work
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Response. Analyze the original artworks
of your peers. Study the totem they painted. Formconclusions about historical and cultural contexts,such as the symbols they used and their mean-ing. Does it reveal anything about their culture?Visual Art Journal
Often, the figures in totems are
animals that symbolize certain qual-ities. In your journal, write a list ofspecial qualities you would like tohave. Then, draw a contemporarytotem mask that illustrates thosequalities.