or egg white as binders. The paint may have
been brushed on with fingers, leaves, or ani-mal hide. It may also have been blown ontothe wall through a hollow reed.
EARLYANIMAL SCULPTURES
After the Old Stone Age, animal art was
not limited to painting. Some early artistsworked in three dimensions. The miniaturehippopotamus shown in Figure 7–3 comes
from ancient Egypt. This sculpture is nearly4,000 years old. It was found in the tomb ofan important member of Egyptian society.The hippo was meant to protect the bodyafter death. It is believed that this hippo wasplaced in the tomb as a good luck charm toprotect the tomb from intruders.
There is another way in which the hippo
in this artwork relates to its environment. Thecreature’s head, back, and sides are decoratedwith features of the lotus plant. This plantgrows in the marshes where hippos live. Thesculptor painted a “record” of the hippo’senvironment on its body.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.Why may early cave dwellers have made
pictures of the animals in their environment?
2.Explain the purpose of the hippo to ancient
Egyptian society.
Lesson 1 Animals in Earliest Art 125
/rhombus6Figure 7–3 The artist has given clues to the
hippo’s environment by decorating its body withlotus plants. These grow in the marshes wherehippos live.
Egyptian. Meir, Tomb of Senbi. Figure of
Hippopotamus. Twelfth Dynasty (1991–1786 B.C.).
Ceramics-Faience. 11 /H1100320 cm (41⁄3/H1100379⁄10/H11033). The
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York.Gift of Edward S. Harkness, 1917.
Inventing a Mascot
Describe practical applications for
design ideas. Look again at the hippo in
Figure 7–3. Its form is so appealing that ithas become the unofficial mascot of theMetropolitan Museum of Art in New Y orkCity. A mascot is an animal or person
used by a group as a sign of luck. Your
school sports teams may have mascots.
Make a mascot for your class or for
yourself. Begin by thinking about popular
animal sayings. Slyas a foxand strong as
a bull are two such sayings. Decide on the
trait, or personal characteristic, your
mascot will show. Write the trait down on asheet of paper. Next, study the shapes ofanimals in pictures found in books ormagazines. Select an animal to draw. Ifpossible, your choice should relate to thetrait you wrote down. Notice the outline ofthe animal’s body. Practice by makingsome rough sketches.Then, using mar-kers, draw the shape of the animal on
white paper. Add the head, legs, tail, andother details.
PORTFOLIO 
Write a short paragraph telling how you
used the elements of art to draw your ani-mal. Put it in your portfolio with yourartwork.