176 Chapter 9 Visiting PlacesThe invention of the airplane in 1903 by
the Wright Brothers changed the way peopleviewed their world. From the air, nothing onearth seemed as powerful or important as itdid at eye level. Cars, buildings, and even entire cities looked like toys. Roads and riverslooked like small ribbons. Plowed fields became so many squares on an endless patch-work quilt. 
As you will see, this new view of our
world was to have a lasting impact on an-other world. That was the world of art.
LANDSCAPES
As noted in Chapter 6, successful 
landscapes —representations of scenes from
nature—invite the viewer in. They tempt youwith their shapes and colors. 
Avery different approach to landscape
painting was taken by the artist responsiblefor Figure 9–15. This landscape, completed
in 1980, does not invite you into it. Rather, it
begs your eye to move across it. In this art-
work, you follow the line of a road that windsthrough the countryside. On your journey,
you pass clumps of trees, tennis courts, andhouses. What sets this painting apart is theever-shifting point of view and brilliant anal-ogous colors—purples, reds, oranges. Thesubject is a well-known stretch of road insouthern California. The artist has attemptedto capture not only how the scenery looks tohim but also how it feels. Notice that you maystart your trip at either the left edge or rightedge of the painting. What differences do youdetect when you view the work beginningfrom one side or the other?
SEASCAPES
Even before the invention of the airplane,
artists were recording broad vistas andpanoramas. A panorama is a complete view of
an area in all directions. One popular pan-
oramic subject is exhibited in Figure 9–16.
This work is a seascape , a drawing or painting
of the ocean and objects found on or around it.
This particular seascape was completed
just four years before the Wright Brothers
LESSON 7
The OutdoorsLESSON 7
/rhombus6Figure 9–15 Analyze the interdependence of the art element line and principle
movement. What feeling does this painting evoke?
David Hockney. Mulholland Drive: The Road to the Studio. 1980. Acrylic on canvas. 218.4 /H11003
617.2 cm (86 /H11003243/H11033). Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, California.
Purchased with the funds provided by the F. Patrick Burnes Bequest.
