PRESENT -DAYART OF SEAANIMALS
Ancient Chinese ways of making art were
shared with China’s neighbors. One of thoseneighbors is the island nation of Japan. Theartwork in Figure 7–7 was done by a Japanese
artist in the 1960s. Her name is AyakoMiyawaki.
Many people, when they think of art,
think of paintings. Artists, as you havelearned, are forever looking for new ways ofcreating. The work of art in Figure 7–7 wascreated with fabrics and fibers. It is an exam-ple of a technique called appliqué (ap-lih-
kay). This is an art form in which cutout shapes
are attached to a larger surface. They can be
stitched or glued in place.
Miyawaki cuts her fabrics freehand. In this
artwork, she has carefully cut out fabrics torepresent various kinds of fish. Observe how
the shapes of the fish differ, and how theirmouths, fins, and tails vary in shape. Look at
the striped and plaid fabrics the artist hasused. Can you tell where she has overlappedfabrics to add gills and eyes? The symbol inthe lower right corner is the artist’s signature.It appears in every one of her works.
Lesson 3 Sea Creatures 129/rhombus6Figure 7–7 Analyze how the artist used line in this
work. Where has she used repetition to create harmony?
Ayako Miyawaki. Various Fish. 1967. Cotton collage on burlap.
33 /H1100329.9 cm (13 /H11003113⁄4/H11033). National Museum of Women in the
Arts, Washington, D.C. Gift of the artist.
Yuan Dynasty in China  (1279–1368)
Historical connection. The Yuan dynasty
was the shortest-lived major dynasty in the
history of China. Genghis Khan, a Mongolconqueror, originally established the dynastywhen he invaded and occupied North China.Genghis Khan's grandson Kublai Khan latercaptured South China, establishing controlover all of China.
The arts were not encouraged during the
Yuan dynasty. Nonetheless, several impor-
tant developments in ceramics did occurduring this time of Mongol rule. These de-velopments included new forms, ornamen-
tation, and glazes. The introduction ofunderglaze blue-and-white ware ceramics,such as the jar in Figure 7–6, received
special notice. These ceramics went on tobecome very popular. The Yuan dynastywas overthrown in the mid-fourteenth
century. Compare the Chinese vase inFigure 7–6 with the Greek vase in Figure5–3 on page 83. How are they different?
Check Your 
Understanding
1.In what century and by whom was the
technique for blue-and-white wareinvented?
2.Explain the term appliqué .
