92 Chapter 5 Art Through the AgesEmpires, as you have learned, come and
go. Rome was no exception. In the fifth cen-tury, this great empire suffered the fate thathad earlier claimed Egypt, Greece, and theIndus River valley civilization. 
The period following Rome’s collapse
was one of chaos. Today we know this time inhistory as the Middle Ages. It lasted some onethousand years. 
ART OF THE MIDDLE AGES
After Rome fell, some of its great temples
and palaces were torn down. The stone wascarried off and used to build fortresses. Thesewere built to keep invaders out. In time,structures of this type led to a new form ofarchitecture. Architecture is the art of planning
and creating buildings.
Castle Building
You probably recognize the structure in Fig-
ure5–11. It is a castle. This is a fortlike dwelling
with high walls and towers. Many castles werefurther protected by moats and drawbridges.Guards stationed in the towers would sound
the alarm when enemies approached.
Study the castle in Figure 5–11. Do you
think the architect’s main concern was safetyor comfort?
Cathedral Building
Just before Rome fell, Christianity spread
throughout much of Europe. During the Mid-dle Ages, the Church remained the singlestrongest force. 
By around 1300, a new type of building
began to appear. This type of structure isshown in Figure 5–12. It was a special type of
church known as a cathedral (kuh- thee-druhl). 
Compare the cathedral in this picture
with the castle in Figure 5–11. The cathedralhas graceful, upwardly soaring lines. 
ART OF THE RENAISSANCE
After ten centuries of slumber, Europe
awoke in the 1400s to a period of unparalleled
LESSON 5
Art of the Middle Ages 
and RenaissanceLESSON 5
/rhombus6Figure 5–11 The architect of this castle avoided
windows because the walls would not support them. Whatother factors might have led to a lack of windows?
View of castle, Alcazar, Segovia, Spain. Eleventh-fifteenth
centuries. SEF/Art Resource, N.Y./rhombus6Figure 5–12 The cathedral has grace-
ful, upwardly soaring lines and large windows.
Beauvais Cathedral, West Façade. Beauvais,
France. 
