96 Chapter 5 Art Through the AgesSeen against the long tapestry of art his-
tory, the last 100 years are but a stitch. Yet,during the twentieth century, more changeshave taken place in art than in all the cen-turies before. In this lesson, you will learnabout some of these changes.ART OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
In the centuries following the Renaissance,
the pursuit of realism continued. Artists pro-duced pictures that showed solid figures mov-ing naturally in space. They created works inwhich sunlight poured through windows,glinting off glass goblets and other shiny sur-faces. Their brushes captured the look and feelof warm skin, cold metal, and soft velvet. 
Toward the end of the 1800s, the search for
realism took a new direction. One group of
French painters in particular “saw the light.”They left their dark studios and went to paintoutdoors. They worked feverishly, using alltheir energies to capture the fleeting effects ofsunlight on objects. This group became known,at first jokingly, as the Impressionists.
Painting
The leader of this art movement —a trend
formed when a group of artists band together —was
an artist named Claude Monet ( klohd moh-
nay). Monet’s goal was to record what the eye
saw at any given moment. Have you ever no-ticed how, on a cloudy day, the sun “goes in”and “comes out” again without warning? Itwas this “reality” that Monet set out to capture.
The work in Figure 5–17 is one of his
paintings. Viewed up close, it looks like ahastily done collection of paint dabs anddashes. When seen from a distance, however,the painting takes on an almost shimmeringquality. The dabs and dashes are now bril-liant flecks of color and blend together toform a stand of slender trees by the banks ofa river. You can almost feel the gentle breezerustling through the leaves on the trees and
rippling the glassy surface of the water.
LESSON 7
Art of the Nineteenth and
Twentieth CenturiesLESSON 7
/rhombus6Figure 5–17 Compare this painting with the one in
Figure 5–15. In what way is this nature scene more“realistic” than the painting of the dancers?
Claude Monet. Poplars on the Bank of the Epte River. 1891. Oil on
canvas. 100.3 /H1100365.2 cm (391⁄2/H110032511⁄16/H11033). Philadelphia Museum
of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Bequest of Anne Thomsonin memory of her father, Frank Thomson, and her mother,Mary Elizabeth Clarke Thomson.
