BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 7. After
each number, write the term from the list thatbest matches each description below.
ancestor figure public art
figure study self-portraitmurals styleportraiture
1.Art to be displayed in and enjoyed by 
a community.
2.Adrawing that focuses on the human
form.
3.Apainting or drawing of an artist’s own
image.
4.The art of making portraits.
5.An image carved in wood that was used
as the resting place of a spirit.
6.Large two-dimensional works painted 
on walls.
7.An artist’s personal way of using the 
elements and principles of art to expressfeelings and ideas.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 8 to 12. 
Answer each question in a complete sentence. 
8.In what artistic style did Agnolo Bronzino
paint the portrait in Figure 8–2?
9.What features gave the Japanese mask 
a fierce look?
10.What types of lines are emphasized 
in the figure in action drawing in thischapter? Why are they emphasized?
11.What are some of the ways in which
Michelangelo made his figures lifelike?
12.What are two reasons why the Chokwe
of Africa made figure carvings?CROSS-CURRICULUM 
CONNECTIONS
On a sheet of paper, answer each question
in a sentence or two.
13.Language Arts. Explain the following
statement: “Art styles change over timeand from place to place.” Restate this inyour own words. Use examples from the chapter that illustrate the truth of this statement.
14.Language Arts. Locate a book of 
poems that includes “The Ballad of JohnHenry.” Practice reading the poem aloud.Share it with classmates as they look atFigure 8–15. Discuss the qualities of thisfictional character that the artist pin-points in his work.
Chapter 8 Review 161
Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery,
Washington, D.C.
In this chapter, you have learned about
portraits and the way people, heroes, andlegends from different cultures are de-picted in art.
Go to art.glencoe.com and take a his-
toric tour by clicking on the SmithsonianNational Portrait Gallery link.Y ou will learnabout America’s first president, GeorgeWashington.Y ou will study artist Gilbert
Stuart’s original portrait of Washington.
Describe the symbolic, biographical, and
artistic elements. How did the artist depictthese in the painting? What techniques didthe artist use?