Expressive Color Schemes
The creator of the painting in Figure 6–14
achieved this powerful effect using a coolcolor scheme. The limited use of color in thispainting emphasizes the idea that the windis everywhere. There is no escape or shelterfrom it. Its fierce gusts overpower the trees,land, the water, and even the sky. What basichues are used in this painting? Where do youfind light values of those hues? Where aredarker values used?
CAPTURING A STORM IN A PRINT
You will find a similar theme running
through Figure 6–15. This work is a wood-
block print. Notice the work’s title. Ejiri is aplace in the artist’s homeland of Japan. Ex-amine the use of line and color in the work. Inwhat ways is this “view” of the wind similarto the one in Figure 6–14? What differencescan you find between the two works?
Lesson 7 The Power of Nature 117/rhombus6Figure 6–15 How would
you have been able to identify agust of wind as the subject ofthis painting without the aid ofthe title?
Katsushika Hokusai. AG u st of
Wind at Ejiri, from the series 
The Thirty-Six Views of Fuji.1831–33. Woodblock print. 24.5 /H1100337.5 cm (9
5⁄8/H11003143⁄4/H11033). The
Metropolitan Museum of Art,New York, New York. RogersFund, 1936.
Making a Monoprint
Demonstrate technical skills. Develop
your printmaking skills by making a
monoprint .This is a print made by
applying ink or paint to a plate and thentransferring the image by hand-rubbing.
Begin by drawing a simple landscape
in crayon on a sheet of gray or pale blueconstruction paper. Use mostly darkvalues of the colors you choose.
Place a drop of liquid starch the size of
half a dollar on a table top. Sprinkle asmall amount of white powdered temperaonto the starch.With one bare hand, mixthe starch and paint. Spread the mixtureout until it is the size of your drawing.Make diagonal lines and swirls in the paintwith your hand.Wash and dry your hands.Carefully lay your drawing face-down onthe “plate” you have created. Press allover the surface with your other hand. Lift
your print by pulling it up from one side.
Lay it on newspapers to dry.
PORTFOLIO 
Examine your monoprint and evalu-
ate the success of your technique.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.Describe the type of color schemes you 
would use to show nature’s seasons.
2.What is a monoprint? Why can only a single
image be created using this printmakingtechnique?
