130 Chapter 7 Observing Animals
The Fox and the Crane
/rhombus6Figure 7-8 Fables, as you know, always have a moral, 
or lesson. What would you say is the moral of The Fox and 
the Crane?
Animals in Literature and Art LESSON 4LESSON 4 Art ReadingReadingArt&&
Since earliest times, animals have been used as symbols in
a variety of cultures. As noted earlier, ancient cave dwellersmade symbolic pictures of animals they planned to hunt.Animals also can be used to represent concepts and ideals.For example, the concept of peace is often symbolized by the
dove. Animals are also used to exemplify humancharacteristics.
In literature, animals are often portrayed in fables. A fable
is a tale that teaches a moral or lesson. In fables, animalssymbolize character traits of people. Greed, dishonesty,and bravery are just a few of these traits. Read the fable in Figure 7–8. It was written two thousand 
years ago by the famous Greek writer Aesop.
Its title is The Fox and the Crane.
Once upon a time, a Fox invited a Crane to
supper. When the Crane arrived, a delicious
scent hung in the air. It was soup. The Fox
poured his guest’s soup into a broad flat stone
dish. The hungry Crane eagerly sipped a mouth-
ful. To her dismay, the soup ran out the sides of
her long bill. She sipped again, and the same
thing happened.
The Fox, unable to conceal his merriment,
howled with laughter. When the Fox had eaten his
fill, he asked whether the Crane had enjoyed her
meal. “Indeed,” she replied innocently. “Please do
me the honor of dining with me tomorrow. I wish to
return your hospitality.” The Fox agreed.
The next day, the Fox arrived at the Crane’s
home. His appetite was sharp. No sooner was he
seated at the table, than the Crane served the
evening meal. An assortment of fish was presented
in a bottle with a slender neck. When the Fox at-
tempted to eat, he encountered a problem. His
snout was too wide to fit through the narrow bot-
tle neck. The Crane’s slender beak fit perfectly.
She ate to her heart’s content.