An Object Up Close
The subject of the painting in Figure 10–2
is an object of a type you have seen. Did youimmediately recognize it as a brightly coloredtropical flower? If you did not, the reasonmay have to do with the way in which theartist represented it. Notice the size of thepainting. Why would any artist choose tomagnify an image of a flower many hun-dreds of times? 
The answer rests with events of the 
period in which the artist, Georgia O’Keeffe,lived. O’Keeffe was active in the early 1900s.The world was changing fast. Tall buildingswere going up in big cities such as New York,where O’Keeffe lived. Convinced that peoplehad begun to overlook nature’s wonders, O’Keeffe painted her subjects larger than life,just like the buildings.
An Object from Long Ago
The painting in Figure 10–3 focuses on a
plant native to the artist’s homeland. In thiscase, the plant is bamboo. The artist was fromChina. Look closely at this work. See the caregiven to each small leaf. The elegant lines callto mind calligraphy (kuh- lig-ruh-fee)—the
art of beautiful writing. In fact, the artist wasa noted calligrapher in his day. What qualityof this work do you think prompted someviewers to call it a portrait of an actual plant? 
Lesson 1 Objects in Nature 185/rhombus6Figure 10–3 This ink 
painting of an actual bambooplant shows many of itscharacteristics. How has the artist made some leaveslook near and others lookfarther away?
Lik’an. Ink-Bamboo. (Detail.)
1308. Handscroll, ink on paper.37.5 /H11003236.2 cm (14
3⁄4/H11033/H110037/H110329/H11033).
The Nelson-Atkins Museum ofArt, Kansas City, Missouri.Purchase: Nelson Trust.
Georgia O ’Keeffe  (1887–1986)
Cultural connection. Georgia O’Keeffe was
deeply inspired by nature. Her most famousworks are her flower paintings (see Figure
10–2 ). Born in Wisconsin in 1887, O’Keeffe
knew from an early age that she wanted tobe a painter.
Following her dream, she studied at the
Art Institute of Chicago and the Art StudentsLeague of New Y ork. O’Keeffe spent a greatdeal of time in New Mexico and moved therepermanently after the death of her husband,artist Alfred Stieglitz.
In New Mexico, she created many
paintings of natural forms in and around thedesert, including animal bones, rocks, shells,and mountains. Compare the use of colorand value in O’Keeffe’s artwork, Red
Cannas, with Figure 10–3.
To learn more about O’Keeffe and her work,
click on Artist Profiles at art.glencoe.com
.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.Define the term perceive.
2.Why did Georgia O’Keeffe paint flowers 
on such a large scale?
