126 Chapter 7 Observing AnimalsStudy the painting in Figure 7–4. It shows
a long-necked tortoise. It is the work of anAustralian Aborigine (ab-uh-rij-ih-nee). Theterm Aborigine comes from two word parts.
The first part, ab,means “from.” The main
part, origine, means “the beginning.” Aborig-
ines are called as such because their ancestorswere the first humans to settle in a given area.The traditions of Australian Aboriginal art goback 50,000 years. This fact was proven by researchers who discovered and dated rock
engravings and paintings similar to thosebeing done today.
The tortoise in this picture was the artist’s
totem. The word totem means an object that
serves as an emblem or respected symbol. This
totem may have been used to protect theartist’s family from harm.WHATYOUWILLLEARN
You will design and create a totem of your
own. As in Figure 7–4, your totem will be ananimal. Select as your totem an animal thatyou believe symbolizes the kind of personyou think you are. Begin by drawing the out-line of the animal of your choice. Then fill inthe outline with a pattern. Next, color thelines of the pattern with oil pastels or crayons.Finally, use a contrasting color of watercolorpaint to fill in the animal shape and completeyour totem.
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Sketch paper and pencil
●White drawing paper, 12 x 18 inches
●Oil pastels or crayons
●Waterc olor paints
●Large, soft brushes
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.With a partner, brainstorm a list of ani-
mals that would make good subjects for a totem. Share your ideas with the class.
2.From all the ideas presented, choose an
animal as the subject of your totem. Selectan animal that you believe symbolizesthe kind of person you think you are.Study photographs of that animal andmake several sketches. Focus mainly onthe animal’s outline. Choose your bestdrawing. Decide on a name for yourtotem. Write this name on the sketch youhave chosen.Creating a Totem
LESSON 2LESSON 2
/rhombus6Figure 7–4 Analyze the use of line in this painting and
how the artist created variety in this artwork.
Spider Nabunu. Long-Necked Tortoise. 1956–1960. Bark
painting. 57.2 /H1100343.2 cm (221⁄2/H1100317/H11033). The Art Gallery of New
South Wales, Sydney, Australia. Aboriginal and Torres StraitIslander Collection. Gift of Stuart Scougall.
