growth. Trade and knowledge spread. New
discoveries were made in science. Artists andscholars developed an interest in the art andliterature of ancient Greece and Rome. This period is known today as the Renaissance
(ren-uh-sahns), which means period of rebirth.
Renaissance Painting
The Renaissance was a time of great dis-
coveries in art as well. Painters achieved alevel of realism never before imagined byusing perspective to give depth and shadingto provide three-dimensionality. 
This realism is evident in the painting in
Figure 5–13. The work was done sometime
after the Renaissance. Notice the attention todetail. Every fold in the woman’s clothing isfaithfully recorded. So is the glint in her eye.Look at her expression. What do you supposeshe is thinking about as she pauses from play-ing her violin?
Lesson 5 Art of the Middle Ages and Renaissance 93/rhombus6Figure 5–13 Observe
the striking use of value in thispainting. How does it add to thelifelike quality of the work?
Orazio Gentileschi. Young
Woman with a Violin. c. 1612. Oil
on canvas. 83.5 /H1100398 cm (327⁄8/H11003
385⁄8/H11033). Detroit Institute of Arts,
Detroit, Michigan. Gift of Mrs.Edsel B. Ford.
Making a Stained-Glass Window
Demonstrate technical skills. Cathe-
drals like the one in Figure 5–12 werefitted with stained-glass windows.Thesewere made of colored glass pieces held
together with lead strips. Because ofthese windows, the insides of the cathe-drals were bathed in softly tinted light.
Cut black butcher paper into a circle
about 12 inches in diameter. Fold thecircle in half three times until you have acone shape. Cut out geometric andsimple shapes from the two folded sides.Vary the sizes of the cuts. Open the
circle. Cover each opening with a patch ofcolored cellophane. Cut the patches sothat each slightly overlaps the shape it ismeant to cover. Secure the cellophanepatches with transparent tape. Place yourfinished work on a windowsill.
PORTFOLIO 
Write a short paragraph explaining how
you made your choices of colors and
shapes. Keep your description and yourartwork together in your portfolio.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is meant by the term Middle Ages?
2.What changes occurred in art during the
Renaissance?
