●Two sheets of illustration board, one
measuring 12 x 18 inches and the other 18 x 24 inches
●Brushes and mixing tray 
●Paint cloth
●Ruler or other straight edge
●Scissors, white glue
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Everyone has dreams and goals. What is
your own life goal? Begin this studio les-son by answering that question. Think ofsymbols or objects connected with yourgoal. Draw several sketches of these images.Then abstract, or simplify, the images byeliminating all unnecessary details.
2.Transfer your best sketch to the sheet of
illustration board. Fill the board com-pletely with your drawing. 
3.Using tempera or acrylic paints, paint
your subject. Include a background areaby using bright hues. 
4.When your work is dry, turn it over. With a
ruler or other straight edge, draw straight
lines at angles to one another. Includeenough lines to divide the painting into atleast 15 large and small angular shapes.
5.Use scissors to cut out your shapes. As
you work, turn each piece over so itspainted side is facing up. Carefully fit the cut-out pieces together so that youknow where each one goes.
6.Center the rearranged shapes on the sheet
of illustration board. Overlap somepieces. Leave narrow spaces betweenothers. Move the shapes around until youare satisfied with the arrangement. Thenglue the pieces in place. 
Lesson 8 Using Abstraction in Art 99
/rhombus6Figure 5–20 Student work. Abstraction
in art.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Did you select images that
identify a particular dream or goal? Did yousimplify the images?
●Analyze Did you use a variety of brightly
colored hues? Does your work containlarge and small angular shapes? 
●Interpret Do you think other people
could interpret the images in your picture?Would they be able to recognize the idea
the images represent?
●Judge Do you think the shapes in your
composition are joined in a way so as tocreate a pleasing whole?Evaluating Y our Work
A strong portfolio reflects what you learn
about art history as well art techniques. Makesure to include written entries that demonstrateyour ability to describe an artwork from the art
historian’s point of view—by telling who createdthe work, and when and where it was created.Show that you understand how time and placeinfluence an artist.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEAS
Careers in art. Visit our Web site at
art.glencoe.com to learn about differ-
ent art-related careers. Compare careeropportunities in art. Which career ismost appealing to you?