2.Knead your ball of clay on the board to
rid it of air bubbles. Begin to form the ballinto the general shape of the animal inyour sketch. Use your fingers or claymodeling tools to make shallow inden-tations that indicate the position of thehead, legs, and tail. Keep turning yoursculpture as you work to make sure itlooks good from all angles.
3.If you intend to fire the piece in a kiln,
use a pencil to push holes into the bot-tom, when the clay is firm but not dry, tokeep it from exploding in the kiln.
4.Finish your sculpture by using clay
modeling tools to add texture to part orall of the surface. A comb or toothbrushpulled across the surface will create thelook of fur. You can use the back of aspoon to polish the surface for a shinylook. This is called burnishing. You canalso use watercolors to add color to youranimal.5.Display your finished work with that of
your classmates to make an abstract zoo.
Lesson 6 Making an Animal Sculpture 135/rhombus6Figure 7–13 Student work.
A creature at rest.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe What kind of a creature did
you create? What surface texture did you
use?
●Analyze Name the most important
element and principle of art you used increating your animal. Tell how you usedthem to give your animal harmony.
●Interpret Were you able to create the
impression that your animal was at rest?Describe how you created this feeling.
●Judge Which aesthetic view would you 
use to judge this work? Tell whether you think your work is successful.Evaluating Y our Work
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Do a second clay sculpture, this time creating
an imaginary creature. Exaggerate the featuresof this animal, making it look fierce and active.Use many textures to provide a varied surface.Give your creature a name that fits its person-ality. Photograph this sculpture for your portfolio.Visual Art Journal
Look for different company logos
that are designs of birds, fish, orother animals. Think about whatthese animals might signify. In yourjournal, make a list of these logosand their possible meanings.your classmates to make an abstract