136 Chapter 7 Observing AnimalsLand, sea, and air are the only true environ-
ments of animals. Yet, artists sometimes turnto another special environment when creat-ing animal art. This is the environment of theimagination.
Some imaginary animals in art are in-
spired by myths, legends, or beliefs. Othersreflect an artist’s personal style or taste. Still
others are made up of the body parts of manyanimals. You may have read Dr. Seuss bookswhen you were small. If you did, you areprobably familiar with such animals.FANTASY ANIMALS FROM MYTH
The ancient Egyptians, you may recall,
viewed animals as symbols. A symbol is an
image used to stand for a quality or an idea. The
hippopotamus was a symbol of strength. 
Another animal symbol from long ago ap-
pears in Figure 7–14. This fantasy animal is a
unicorn. The name blends the word parts uni,
meaning “one,” and corn, meaning “horn.” It
comes from the single twisted horn on thecreature’s forehead. White in color, the uni-corn was a symbol of purity. Its horn wasthought to have many magical powers. Onepower was the ability to restore health tosomeone who has been poisoned.
Fantasy Animals in Applied Art
The artwork in which the unicorn appears
is a tapestry. This is a woven wall hanging with
decorative designs or colorful scenes. This tapes-
try was made during the Middle Ages. It wasone of a series of seven. Together theyrecorded the legend of the hunt for the uni-
corn. In this tapestry, the unicorn has beencaptured. It rests on a bed of flowers deep inthe forest.
The artist placed the unicorn in the center
of the scene. This emphasizes its importance inthe story. The light color value of the animalmakes it stand out from the colorful back-ground of plants and flowers. Notice how theartist has used the fence to create a sense ofdepth. This technique is called overlapping. The
front half of the fence overlaps, or covers, theunicorn’s back legs. Where else is overlappingused in the work?
FANTASY ANIMALS THAT
REFLECT STYLE
In art and the surrounding world, colors
are sometimes used as symbols. A person whois scared is called “yellow.” Someone who is
LESSON 7
Fantasy AnimalsLESSON 7
/rhombus6Figure 7–14 What techniques has the artist used to
give a feeling of depth in this tapestry?
The Unicorn Tapestries,VII: The Unicorn in Captivity. c. 1500. Silk,
wool, silver and silver-gilt threads. 3.7 /H110032.5 m (12 /H110321/H11033/H110038/H110323/H11033).
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York. Giftof John D. Rockefeller, Jr., The Cloisters Collection.