African Ancestor Figure
The work in Figure 8–11 is typical of 
the style of art of the Chokwe ( choh -kway)
people of Africa. The work is an example ofan ancestor figure. This is an image carved in
wood that was used as the resting place of a spirit.This particular ancestor figure is based on agreat leader and hunter.
Like most African figures, this carving was
created for two reasons. One was respect forthe dead and the other was a fear of angryspirits of the dead. Notice that the proportionsare different from the statue of Moses. Thehead and the hands are very large. These pro-portions are found in much African art.
and appreciated. Artists like Michelangelo 
and Leonardo da Vinci secretly studiedanatomy so that they could create anatomicallyaccurate paintings and statues of people. Fig-
ure 8–10 is a sculpture that was created by
Michelangelo that represents Moses. Michelan-gelo has depicted Moses with heroic propor-tions. Notice the athletic muscles and veins ofhis arms.
Michelangelo paid careful attention to de-
tail. Notice the lifelike quality of his hair andbeard and the graceful folds of the fabric. Hisright arm is resting on the stone tablets thatrepresent the Ten Commandments.
Lesson 5 Portraits in the Round 153Check Your 
Understanding
1.Which of the sculptures in this lesson served
as an example for artists who createdrealistic art later on? Explain your answer.
2.What is an ancestor figure?/rhombus6Figure 8–11 What clues can you find that this figure
was a great leader and hunter?
Africa. Angola. Chokwe. Chibinda (The Hunter), Ilunga Katele.
Mid-nineteenth century. Wood, hair, hide. Height: 40.6 cm(16/H11033). Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth, Texas.
Michelangelo (1475–1564)
Cultural connection. Born in a small village
near Florence, Italy in 1475, MichelangeloBuonarroti was the creator of some of thegreatest masterpieces in the history of art.
Not only was he a brilliant sculptor, but alsoa talented painter, architect, and poet.
Figure 8–10 illustrates Michelangelo’s
genius as a sculptor of marble. He also created the awe-inspiring paintings on theceiling of the Sistine Chapel. This monu-mental task took four years. He depictedintricate Biblical scenes on a ceiling that wasalmost ten thousand square feet in area,while lying on a scaffold erected high abovethe chapel floor.
To learn more about Michelangelo, click
on Artist Profiles at art.glencoe.com .