4 Chapter 1 The Elements of ArtHave you ever heard a person described
as “wearing many hats”? Saying a personwears many hats means he or she is good ata number of things. An artist —a person who
uses imagination and skill to communicate ideasin visual form —w ears many hats. Among the
hats artists wear is one labeled “scientist.”Wearing this hat, artists experiment with the
effects of light on objects. Wearing the math-ematician’s hat, they carefully measure dis-tances between objects. Wearing the hat ofwriter, they tell stories and record events. 
In this book, you will learn about the dif-
ferent ways in which artists have used theseskills over the centuries. You will also meetspecific artists and learn about their creations.
THEARTIST’SLANGUAGE
Like other professionals, artists “speak” a
language all their own. Just as the mathe-matician uses numbers, so the artist uses line.Much in the way musicians communicate
through notes and sounds, artists speak incolor, value, and shape. The writer relies on
words, sentences, and paragraphs; the artiston form, space, and texture.
These seven terms—line, color, value,
shape, form, space, and texture—make up theartist’s vocabulary. The terms are grouped to-gether under the heading elements of art.
These are the basic visual symbols an artist uses
to create works of art. An artist’s success depends
on how well he or she uses these elements.
Using the Artist’s Vocabulary
When you look at an artwork, it is not 
always clear where one element ends and another begins. Study the artworks in Figures
1–2and 1–3. You do not see the elements of
form and color in the first or the element of linein the second. Instead, you see the works as awhole. As you examine each work, your eye
LESSON 1
The Language of Art
/rhombus6Figure 1–2 Does the
artist use a single color to showan object? Do the objects lookreal? What does this artwork“say” to you? 
Paul Cézanne. The Basket of
Apples. c. 1895. Oil on canvas.
65.4 cm /H1100381.3 cm (253⁄4/H1100332/H11033).
The Art Institute of Chicago,Chicago, Illinois. Helen BirchBartlett Memorial Collection.LESSON 1