STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sheets of sketch paper
●Colored construction paper 9 x 12 inches
●White glue or glue sticks
●Cardboard cut into 1⁄2-inch squares
●Scissors
WHATYOUWILLDO
l.Begin by studying the Japanese mask in
Figure 8–4. Note the way the artist dis-torted the features and expression of theface to make it appear more frightening. 
2.Complete several sketches of faces.
Experiment with different ways ofexaggerating and distorting the facialfeatures. Notice the different moods andfeelings suggested by the sketches.
3.Using your best sketch as a guide, tear 
a wide oval or round shape from a pieceof construction paper. Do not use scissors
for this task. Glue the shape to a sheet of
construction paper. 
4.Tear other shapes from the construction
paper to form the eyes, eyebrows, nose,and mouth. For each feature, tear out six
or more shapes. Layer them from large to
small. Keep in mind that the more shapesyou use for a single feature, the moresculpted it will look. To make your workmore expressive, distort the shapes. Besure to use bright, contrasting colors.
5.Assemble the various features on the face
shape. For each feature, glue the largestpiece in place first. Continue stackingsmaller shapes in this fashion. The resultwill be a layered effect.
Lesson 2 Creating an Expressive Face 147Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Are all the features of the face
included in your mask? Are these featuresdistorted? 
●Analyze Did you use a variety of large
and small shapes? Point out places on yourmask where contrasting colors are used.
●Interpret Would viewers agree that your
mask is expressive? If asked to describeyour mask with a single word, what word
would you choose? 
●Judge Do you think you succeeded in
creating an expressive face? If you were to do another, what would you change tomake the work more effective?
Create a self-portrait , a painting or drawing
of an artist’s own image. Study your face in the
mirror. Using charcoal, draw a large oval to rep-resent the outline of your face. Try to captureyour expression. Use white chalk to highlight
eyes, cheeks, and so on. Complete your self-
portrait by adding details and shading./rhombus6Figure 8–5 Student work. Expressive face.
Evaluating Y our Work
Visual Art Journal
Using descriptive adjectives,
write a paragraph in your journal de-scribing the expression you weretrying to capture in your portrait andwhether you were successful.