looking at this painting? Look at the face and
hands of Eleonora. How old does she seem tobe? How old does her son look? Look at thesize of his head and the size of his hands. No-tice how carefully the pearls aroundEleonora’s neck are placed. Notice the elabo-rate brocade design woven into the fabric ofher dress and the shine of the boy’s jacket.What do the clothing and jewelry tell youabout the social status of these two? This por-trait was commissioned to show the wealthand beauty of this woman. Do you think theartist depicted these people as they reallylooked or as they preferred to be shown?
EXPRESSIVE PORTRAITS
The portrait in Figure 8–3 was painted
over 300 years after Bronzino’s portrait by Vin-cent van Gogh. The style van Gogh used iscalled Expressionism . He painted to express his
personal feelings about a subject.  No one paidvan Gogh to paint this work. He chose the
young woman, and asked her to pose for himbecause he saw something in her that hewanted to express. Did he try to depict the sur-face details and colors accurately? Comparethe quality of her skin to that of Eleonora’s.Notice the brushstrokes. Look at the girl’s face.With which of these two women would you
feel most comfortable? Which is the most re-alistic? Which is the most appealing?
Lesson 1 Portraits 145Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is an artist’s style?
2.Explain how portrait painting changed from
the 1500s to the 1800s./rhombus6Figure 8–3 Compare and contrast the eyes in this
portrait to the eyes in Figure 8–2. Both women are lookingdirectly at the viewer, but their eyes reveal differentexpressions. Describe what they reveal.
Vincent Van Gogh. La Mousmée. 1888. Oil on canvas. 73.3 /H11003
60.3 cm (287⁄8/H11003233⁄4/H11033). National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C.
Chester Dale Collection. Image © 2003 Board of Trustees.
Italian Renaissance
Historical connection. Look at Figure 8–2 ,
an example of a portrait commissioned by theMedici family during the Italian Renaissance.The Renaissance was a period of greatawakening. It began in Italy around 1400 and
lasted for over a century. During this time, thearts flourished, trade spread, andadvancements in science were made.
The Medici family played an important
role in the Italian Renaissance. This familyruled Florence and much of Italy from 1537
to 1631. Through trade and banking, thefamily became one of the wealthiest in
fifteenth-century Italy.
The Medicis were important patrons of
the arts. In fact, they commissioned manypaintings, sculptures, and tapestries fromartists such as Agnolo Bronzino andMichelangelo.
Compare this portrait with Figure 8–3.
What do the subjects’ clothing tell you abouttheir status?