172 Chapter 9 Visiting PlacesCities have been around in one form or
another for more than 7,000 years. Likerooms, however, they have begun to appear
as subjects of art only recently. In this lesson,you will learn about various ways in whichartists have viewed and portrayed cities. Youwill also learn about the contributions of architects to the changing face of cities.
THECITY IN ART
Factories, traffic jams, and high-rise apart-
ment buildings are all part of modern city life.They are also a theme in some cityscapes. Acityscape is a drawing or painting focusing on
large buildings and other objects found in cities.As an art form, the cityscape dates back to theearly 1700s. 
At the beginning of the twentieth century,
the focus of the cityscape began to shift.Many artists began concentrating on the less
glamorous aspects of the inner city. Such apainting appears in Figure 9–11. On its sur-
face, the painting is a realistic picture of anindustrial scene. Included are plant buildings,loading docks, girders, pipes, and assortedheavy machinery. The painting does not stopthere, however. Notice its organization. Ob-serve the use of geometric forms and shapes.Count the many horizontals, verticals, anddiagonals. Note the careful combination oflight and dark values of a single hue. In whatway can this painting be said to be greaterthan the sum of its parts? 
THEART OF THE SKYSCRAPER
Ancient cities were located in spacious
river valleys such as along the Nile in Egypt.They had plenty of room to spread out. This
LESSON 5
CityscapesLESSON 5
/rhombus6Figure 9–11 Find the
pipe running across the centerof this carefully composedwork. What other object followsa straight path, then veers offat the last instant? What other“echoes” of lines and shapescan you find?
Charles Sheeler. City Interior.
1936. Aqueous adhesive and oilon composition board. 56.2 /H11003
68.4 cm (22 /H1100327/H11033). Worcester
Art Museum, Worcester,Massachusetts. Elizabeth M.Sawyer Fund in memory ofJonathan and Elizabeth M.Sawyer.
