138 Chapter 7 Observing AnimalsLook at the artwork in Figure 7–16. This is
an example of folk art. Folk art is art made 
by artists who have had no formal training. In some
cases, the name of the folk artist is not known.The main medium in this example of folk
art is bottle caps. The type used, called acrown cap, was first produced in 1891. Somebottlers today still use crown caps. Thesemetal caps add an unusual surface texture tothe giraffe. The work contains many otherfound objects as well. These include treebranches and a fur tail. All are attached to ametal body. How many different foundmedia can you see?
Notice how the giraffe seems as though it
is about to move. The diagonal slant of itslegs and its neck help create that feeling.
WHATYOUWILLLEARN
You will create a three-dimensional fan-
tasy animal using recyclable materials andother found objects. Your creature will have ahead, a body, legs, and a tail. Depending onthe materials you collect, you may createother parts. These might include wings, ears,horns, spikes, hair, or fur. To add color, youwill finish your creature by painting it or cov-ering it with interesting buttons, fabric scraps,papers, foils, and so on. Give your creature aname. You will also write a story about its lifeand environment. Finally, present your crea-ture to the class by telling your story.
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Assorted recyclable packing materials(yogurt cups, tubes, or other containers)
●White glue or masking tape
●Masking or transparent tape
●Newsprint for papier-mâché
●Cellulose wallpaper paste and water 
●School tempera paints
●Assorted brushes
●Buttons, fabric scraps, pieces of brokentoys, and other found materials
●Sheets of corrugated cardboard, posterboard, or colored construction paperCreating a Fantasy Animal
LESSON 8LESSON 8
/rhombus6Figure 7–16 What unusual material has the artist used
to create this giraffe? What is the main principle of art in thissculpture? 
Unknown American Artist. Bottlecap Giraffe. c. 1966. Carved
and painted wood, bottlecaps, rubber, glass, animal hair andfur. 184.2 /H11003137.2 /H1100344.5 cm (72
1⁄2/H1100354 /H11003171⁄2/H11033). The National
Museum of American Art, Smithsonian Institution,Washington, D.C. Gift of Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr. and
museum purchase made possible by Ralph Cross Johnson.
