BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 12.
After each number, write the term from thelist that matches each description below.
applied art diorama
architecture fine artart historians hieroglyphicart movement painted screenbust Renaissancecontours symbol
1.Art made to be enjoyed visually, not used.
2.People who study art of different ages
and cultures.
3.An image used to stand for a quality or
idea.
4.An early form of picture writing.
5.The art of planning and creating
buildings.
6.Asculpture that shows a person’s head,
shoulders, and upper chest.
7.Period of rebirth.
8.Art made to be useful as well as visually
pleasing. 
9.Outlines and surface ridges.
10.An art object used as a wall or room
divider.
11.Atrend formed when a group of artists
band together.
12.Ascenic representation in which minia-
ture sculptures and other objects aredisplayed against a painted backdrop.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 13 to 17.
Answer each question in a complete sentenceor two.
13.What are the rules of Egyptian art for
showing the human body?
14.Name a difference and a similarity be-
tween the way the Greeks and Romansshowed the human figure.
15.What religious beliefs guided the art of
the Indus River valley?16.What methods did Renaissance painters
use to achieve realism in their works?
17.Compare and contrast the goals of the
Impressionists and the goals of theSurrealists.
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
18.Music. Like art, music has undergone
changes over the centuries. Working witha group, research the following “move-ments” in the history of music: Romanti-cism, Expressionism, Neo-Classicism. For each, identify when the movementoccurred and the names of the principalcomposers. Share your findings withclassmates in an oral report.
19.Social Studies. This chapter covers art
from different cultures. Compare andanalyze artwork from three differentcultures. What are the important culturaldifferences and similarities?
Chapter 5 Review 101
The Art Institute of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois
Understanding the meaning and purpose
of a certain artwork teaches you about theculture where it originated. To enrich yourunderstanding of various artworks’ historicaland cultural background, go toart.glencoe.com and click on the link for
The Art Institute of Chicago.
You will discover artworks from diverse
cultures. Select and compare two artworksfrom separate cultures. What did you learnabout those cultures? Write a descriptivereport explaining the meaning and historybehind the artworks.