WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Collect a variety of recyclable packing
materials. You might gather boxes, plasticcontainers, or tubes. Study these items.Practice placing them together to createthe form of an imaginary creature. Theform should include a head, a body, and legs.
2.When you have decided on an arrange-
ment, attach the objects with maskingtape. Apply papier-mâché strips tostrengthen the joints and cover the body.3.Choose colors of tempera paint. Decide
whether your creature will have asmooth or rough surface texture. Applythe paint using brushes that will give the desired texture. Use large-bristledbrushes for a rough texture. Use fine-bristled brushes for a smooth texture. 
4.Add a tail, ears, eyes, and other parts.
Use buttons, felt, trims, fabric, and otherfound objects. If you prefer, substitutepieces of cardboard, poster board, orcolored construction paper.
5.Give your creature a name. Write a brief
story about the creature and its environ-ment. Present your fantasy creature to theclass by reading your story aloud.
Lesson 8 Creating a Fantasy Animal 139/rhombus6Figure 7–17 Student work.  Fantasy creatures.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe List the materials used to
create your animal. Describe the materialsused for ears, eyes, and so on.
●Analyze Describe the form you created.
What surface texture did you use? What colors did you select?
●Interpret What kind of mood or feeling
does your creature express? Was yourstory funny or serious?
●Judge Which aesthetic view would you
use to describe your work? If you were todo this project again, what, if anything,would you change?Evaluating Y our Work
Make sure each entry remains separate and
protected in your portfolio.Y ou may want to sep-arate artworks with a piece of tissue paper ornewsprint. Mount and label photographs forclear identification. All entries should be easy toidentify or read.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEAS
Careers in art .If you’re thinking
about pursuing a career in art, visitour Web site at art.glencoe.com to
compare different career opportuni-ties in art. Which do you find mostinteresting?