ART OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY
You have learned that the Impressionists
were seeking new ways to capture realisticappearances in their art. However, the searchfor realism was nothing new. Roman sculp-tors and Renaissance painters sought thesame goal. Strands in the fabric of art history,it seems, loop back on themselves.
One strand that came full circle in the
twentieth century is the use of symbolism inart. You learned about symbolism in thelessons on Egyptian art earlier in this chap-ter. A heavy reliance on symbols became afeature of a twentieth-century art movementknown as Surrealism.
Painting
In their works, the Surrealists tapped into
the mysterious world of dreams. In thisnighttime “world,” symbols often play im-portant roles. Consider the curious paintingin Figure 5–18. Notice the work’s title. You
will probably have no trouble finding the two“portraits” of the artist. One—the artist as a
child—appears in the lower half of the pic-ture. The other—the adult artist—appears inthe picture on the wall. The long, unnaturalshadow cast upward by the child’s imagehelps tie the two portraits together.
Yet, like most Surrealist paintings, this one
asks more questions than it answers. What,for example, is the meaning of the clock?What are we to make of the empty containerin the painting within a painting? Some crit-ics have detected a sense of sadness or long-ing in this painting. What feeling does thework communicate to you?
Lesson 7 Art of the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries 97/rhombus6Figure 5–18 What statement might the artist be
making about the passage of time? What clues are providedby the object in the hand of each figure?
Helen Lundeberg. Double Portrait of the Artist in Time. 1935. Oil
on Masonite. 121.3 /H11003101.6 cm (473⁄4/H1100340/H11033). National Museum
of American Art, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. 
Claude Monet  (1840–1926)
Cultural connection. Claude Monet was
not only the leader of the Impressionists, buthis work titled Impression: Sunrise also
inspired the name of this art movement. Thecharacteristic of the Impressionist style iscapturing the impression of light in a scene.
Monet’s paintings, including Figure 5–17,
reflect his interest in the effects of outdoorlight and atmosphere. In 1883, Monet settledat a country home in Giverny, France. There,he created a water lily pond that became thesubject of many of his paintings. In his lateryears, Monet's eyesight began to fail. Still,
the artist kept on painting, nearly until thetime of his death in 1926. Compare the useof light and color in Figures 5–17 and 5–18.What type of feeling do they each express?
To learn more about Monet and his work,
click on Artist Profiles at art.glencoe.com .
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What was the aim of the Impressionists?
What was the goal of the Surrealists?
2.What is an art movement?
