BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 6. After
each number, write the term from the list thatmatches each description below.
assemblage nature study
landscape studymonoprint stylized
1.Adrawing or painting of mountains,
trees, or other natural scenery.
2.Athree-dimensional artwork consisting
of many pieces assembled together.
3.Simplified or exaggerated.
4.Adrawing used to plan a painting or
other large project.
5.Adrawing used to help artists sharpen
their perception of natural objects.
6.Ap r i n t  m a de by applying ink or paint to
a plate and then transferring the imageby hand-rubbing.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 7 to 11. An-
swer each question in a complete sentence.
7.Give two reasons why artists might
stylize works of art.
8.What were Leonardo da Vinci’s two
purposes in creating the drawing inFigure 6–6?
9.What is point of view?
10.What are some hues associated with
spring? What colors are associated withwinter?
11.What season is shown in Figure 6–10?
How did the artist convey this time ofyear?CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
12.Language Arts. Look at Figure 6–4 on
page 106. Write a short story about thescene. Describe the village and the peoplein the painting. Explain who they are andwhat they are doing. Illustrate the imagewith words.
13.Music. Storms have been the subject
not only for visual artworks, but havealso been depicted in numerous musicalcompositions. Speak with a music teacherin your school or community to learnabout musical works that “describe”storms. Listen to one of these compo-sitions. Write a paragraph describinghow the music captures some of theimages shown throughout the chapter.
Chapter 6 Review 121
National Gallery of Art,Washington, D.C.
In this chapter, you explored the different
ways artists have depicted nature. Visit the
National Gallery of Art and study HenriRousseau’s painting Tropical Forest with
Monkeys. Go to art.glencoe.com and click
on the National Gallery of Art link.
Describe what is illustrated in the paint-
ing. How is nature depicted? How has theartist used colors to show it is a tropicalforest? Is it an imaginary or realistic scene?
Explain your answer.