●Several brushes 
●Tempera paints, mixing tray
●Scissors
●White glue
●Black construction paper
WHATYOUWILLDO
l.Begin by looking again at Figure 8–8.
Concentrate on the lines of the figure.Observe how the artist has used a varietyof lines, shapes, colors, and textures,within the overall shape. See how theseadd action to the work’s composition.
2.Complete several pencil sketches of a
student model in an action pose. In your sketches, focus on capturing thelines of action in the figure. Draw onlythe outline of the figure.
3.Working lightly with a continuous 
pencil line, transfer your best sketch tothe sheet of white drawing paper. Makeyour drawing large enough to fill most of the paper. Go over the pencil line witha black marker.
4.Still working with the marker, divide
your figure into a variety of large andsmall shapes.
5.Switching to tempera and brush, paint
the smaller shapes within the large figureshape. Select bright, cheerful colors thatcontrast with one another. You do nothave to paint all the shapes. You may alsowant to add painted lines or lines madewith the marker to some of the shapes.Notice that the artist has done this inFigure 8–8 to create different textures. 
6.With scissors, cut out your drawing. Use
white glue to mount the drawing on asheet of black construction paper.
Lesson 4 Drawing a Figure in Action 151●Describe Can you easily identify the
head, arms, and legs in your figure? Doesthe figure appear to be moving?
●Analyze Did you break up your figure
with a variety of large and small shapes?Did you also use a variety of colors andtextures?
●Interpret Do you think most viewers will
recognize your work as an abstract figurein action? 
●Judge What do you consider to be the
best part of your composition?
/rhombus6Figure 8–9 Student work. Abstract figure in action.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k Evaluating Y our Work
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation. Select and display a variety
of your artworks in the classroom. Analyze theoriginal exhibition of your peers to form conclu-sions about formal properties and historical andcultural contexts.Visual Art Journal
Take notice of the various shapes
found in nature. Explore these shapes
and forms by illustrating them inyour journal. Try different colors,
shapes, and sizes.