132 Chapter 7 Observing AnimalsHave you ever wondered what it would
be like to soar like a bird? If you have, you arenot alone. Since earliest times, humans havedreamed of flying. This dream became a real-ity in 1903. That year the Wright Brothers con-quered the air in the first “flying machine.”
The desire to capture the grace and majesty
of birds has not been limited to inventors.Artists, too, have long been inspired by thebeauty of flight and of creatures that fly. EARLYBIRDILLUMINATION
You have probably heard the saying, “A
picture is worth a thousand words.” Artistshave understood the truth of this saying formore than eleven centuries. Since about
A.D.
850, artists have been making pictures to il-lustrate books. The picture in Figure 7–10 is
from ancient Persia. It is a type of hand-painted
book illustration known as an illumination.
The word illuminate means “to light up.”
These miniature paintings were so named be-cause they “shed light on” the words, or madethem easier to understand. Imagine that thebook you are reading right now contained nopictures. Think how hard it would be to “see”the artworks from descriptions of them alone.
The illumination in Figure 7–10 tells a
story. It is about thirty birds that set out on a long journey. Their goal is to find the kingof birds. 
Notice the many different types of birds
in this picture. How many can you identify?What other animals are in the scene?
Illuminations and 
the Element of Line 
Like most Persian paintings, this one
makes strong use of the element of line. Withyour finger, trace the flowing curves thatmake up the birds, tree, and landscape. Theselines suggest graceful movement. The tree ismade to look as if it is growing beyond thepicture’s frame. 
You may have noticed the curves in the
two corner boxes. These are more than justdecoration. They are an example of calligra-
phy (kuh- lig-ruh-fee). This word is from two
Greek words meaning “beautiful” and “writ-ing.” Calligraphy is the art of beautiful writing.
These curves are letters of the Persian alpha-bet. Notice that the thickness of these linesvaries from curve to curve.
LESSON 5
Birds in ArtLESSON 5
/rhombus6Figure 7–10 Notice that some birds appear higher in
the picture. This was the artist’s way of adding depth. Whatare some other ways of suggesting space?
Habib Allah. Mantiq al-tair (The Language of the Birds). c. 1600.
Illustrated manuscript (Ink, opaque colors, gold, and silver onpaper). 25.4 /H1100311.4 cm  (10 /H110034
1⁄2/H11033). The Metropolitan Museum of
Art, New York, New York. The Fletcher fund.
