BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 10.
After each number, write the term from thelist that best matches each description below.
architects façade
cityscape panoramacolumns RococoThe Eight seascapeelevation staged photograph
1.Vertical posts that rise to support another
structure. 
2.An art style of the 1700s that emphasized
graceful movement, curving lines, anddelicate colors.
3.The front of a building.
4.Ac o m plete view of an area in all
directions.
5.Ad r a w i ng or painting focusing on large
buildings and other objects found in cities.
6.Adrawing or painting of the ocean and
objects found on or around it. 
7.Agroup of American Realists who worked
at the beginning of the twentieth century.
8.Artists who plan and create buildings.
9.Aphotographic composition that makes
use of artificial images or processes.
10.Adrawing of an outside view of a
building.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 11 to 14.
Answer each question in a complete sentence. 
11.Why did van Gogh choose to paint a
picture of his room? 
12.What is the name of the palace Louis XIV
had built for him? What side of the king’spersonality does this palace reflect?
13.What change took place in the painting 
of cityscapes at the turn of the twentiethcentury?
14.What was the contribution of Louis H.
Sullivan to the look of cities today?CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
15.Language Arts .Imagine that you are a
real estate agent. Your job is to describe
homes that are for sale. Choose one of thedwellings in Figures 9–6, 9–7, or 9–8.Write a paragraph describing the
structure. Identify the type of individualwho might feel at home in the dwellingyou have chosen. Explain how you cameto this conclusion.
16.Geography. Genoa, Italy—the city
shown in Figure 9–17—has a celebratedpast. Using an encyclopedia or otherresource, find out more about Genoa’s
past and present. What is the city mostnoted for today? Write your findings in a report.
Chapter 9 Review 181
Los Angeles County Museum of Art,
Los Angeles, California
In this chapter, you learned how places
inspire artists and how artists representthese special places. Artists illustrate theirpersonal view of the world in their artwork.You can visit different places across the
world through an artist’s eyes. Explore the
various destinations by going to
art.glencoe.com and clicking on the Los
Angeles County Museum of Art link.
Through a variety of artworks, you will
discover new places and revisit others in anew way. What did you learn when exploringthese places? What did it reveal about theartist? After reading this chapter, why do youthink artists represent places?