Rhythm in a Landscape
Compare the painting in Figure 6–2 with
the one in Figure 6–3. The two landscapeswere painted about the same time. Like thework on the opposite page, this one shows acheerful scene from nature. It even includessome of the same features, such as trees. 
However, that is where the similarity
ends. Whereas the landscape in Figure 6–2portrays a city setting, the one in Figure 6–3records a rural scene. The work, moreover,
follows a careful design. Notice the row afterrow of evenly spaced seedlings in the bottom
half of the picture. Notice how the artist over-lapped the shapes to give depth to the scene. 
Lesson 1 Landscape Art 105/rhombus6Figure 6–3 Notice 
the use of repetition in thispainting. What other principleof art has Miró used to give thisartwork a lively feeling?
Joan Miró. Vines and Olive Trees,
Tarragona. 1919. Oil on canvas.
72.5 /H1100390.5 cm (281⁄2/H11003355⁄8/H11033).
The Metropolitan Museum ofArt, New York, New York. TheJacque and Natasha GelmanCollection. © Artists RightsSociety (ARS), New York/ADAGP , Paris.
A Stylized Landscape
Using direct observation. Look again at
the plants, trees, and plowed fields in thelandscape on this page.These objectshave been represented in a highlystylized way.This means simplified or
exaggerated. Some artists choose to
stylize their works because it allows themto picture nature in a unique, personal way.
Select a park or other familiar nature
scene in your community. On a sheet ofdrawing paper, express a variety of ideasbased on your direct observation. Sketchthe trees, flowers, and other landscapefeatures. Make your view stylized by
simplifying or exaggerating the shapes ofthese objects. Complete your stylizedlandscape with markers.
PORTFOLIO 
Write a description of how you
stylized the objects in your landscape.Analyze the success of your artworkand put this evaluation in your portfoliowith your work.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is a landscape?
2.Compare and contrast the similarities 
and differences between Figures 6–2 and 6–3.
