WHATYOUWILLLEARN
You will paint an expressive bad-weather
scene. You will begin by selecting a season,time of day, and place. You will include trees,plants, and objects that help to describe thesetting and the weather conditions. You willuse tints and shades of a single hue of tem-pera paint. Various tints and shades of blue,for example, might be used to suggest a land-scape with falling snow. You will use a vari-ety of lines to help express movement.
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sketch paper
●Poster board or heavy constructionpaper, 12 x 18 inches 
●Tempera paint
●Paper plate and brushes 
●Water container and paper towels
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.With classmates, brainstorm examples of
bad weather. Choose a particular image.Decide on the time of year and place.
2.Working by yourself, complete several
sketches of your bad weather scene.Sketch plants, trees, and other objectsquickly. Use a variety of lines that suggestmovement, as in Figure 6–16. Repeatsome of the lines to create rhythm.
3.Transfer your scene onto poster board or
construction paper. Choose a color oftempera that best fits your scene. On thepaper plate, mix white and black temperawith the color you selected to create dif-ferent tints and shades. Paint your scene. 
4.Paint all of the spaces. Switch to a small
brush with fine bristles to paint smallshapes and details. Use black or white
tempera to outline any important areas.
5.Choose a title for your work that reflects
the mood and weather. See if other stu-dents can identify the season, time of day,and place in your painting.
Lesson 8 Painting a Storm 119/rhombus6Figure 6–17 Student work. Rain in spring.
Use your program’s Shape and Fill tools to
create a simple landscape. Shapes should beflat. Choose dark shades of colors. If the soft-ware you are using has a Blend or Smear brush,
select and use it. Paint objects with diagonallines. Make some lines longer than others. De-scribe the effect you have achieved.COMPUTER OPTIONCOMPUTER OPTIONVisual Art Journal
In your journal, list the rewards of
studying or creating art as a hobby.Compare these avocational oppor-tunities in art, such as visiting muse-ums and making art projects.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Identify the season in your
painting. Identify the time of day and place.
●Analyze Explain how you organized your
work.Identify the different tints and shades
you used. Where did you repeat lines or
shapes to show movement?
●Interpret Tell what mood or feeling your
work communicates. What is the title of
your painting? Does it capture this mood or
feeling?
●Judge State whether your artwork is
successful. What details help make yourpainting expressive?Evaluating Y our Work