WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Carefully study the Kota figure illus-
trated in Figure 5.9. Examine the tactiletextures in the work. Notice the use offormal balance. On the large piece ofcardboard, complete an outline drawingin pencil of a similar figure. Like the onepictured, your figure should be abstract.
2.Cut out your figure. With the pencil, 
add facial features and decorative lines.Squeeze white glue over the pencil lines.Lay twine over glue lines. Allow the glueto dry before proceeding to the next step.
3.Lay the prepared figure on a sheet of
aluminum foil. Place a dull pencil pointon the foil about one-half inch from theouter edge of the figure. Following thecontour of the figure, make a light outlineone-half inch larger.
4.Using the indented outline as a guide, cut
out the foil copy of your figure. Begin-ning on one side, fold the foil over theedge of the cardboard. Gently smooth itdown and press it into place. 
5.Press the foil securely around the raised
glue lines. Use the blunt end of a brush,dull pencil, or your fingers to make theselines stand out clearly. Be careful not totear the foil.
6.When completed, the foil should be 
bent under all edges of the figure andsmoothed flat everywhere except overthe glue lines. Secure the foil to thecardboard with tape.
7.Use the same blunt tool to apply
texture—dots and lines.
Lesson 4 Making a Relief Sculpture 91/rhombus6Figure 5–10 Student work. Relief sculpture.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Does your figure include all the
shapes identified in the original?
●Analyze Does your figure have formal
balance? Does it show features of the faceand decorations as patterns of line on thesurface of the sculpture? Do these linesgive your work an interesting texture?
●Interpret Do you think your figure looks
as though it, too, could chase away evilspirits?
●Judge Suppose you were to make
another Kota figure. What would you dodifferently to make it better?Evaluating Y our Work
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Accent the decorations on the foil surface of
your Kota figure. Do this by painting on a coat of
black ink. Y ou may have to apply several coats
to penetrate all areas. When the ink has dried,lightly rub steel wool over the design.The raisedareas will return to their original metallic finish.The other areas will remain black.Visual Art Journal
Create another abstract figure of
your own design. Before sketching
the design, decide on its purpose.Describe in your journal the kind ofmood the completed work will express.