BIRDART
Although we think of birds as creatures
of flight, the sky is only one environment inwhich birds live. The nature study in Figure
7–11 shows another. This is the Brazilian rain
forest in South America. The brightly coloredwinged creatures in the work are humming-birds. Hummingbirds are special because oftheir ability to fly backward and their greatspeed. They are also the smallest of all birds.Some are less than 3 inches long!
Here the artist has provided a close-up of
three of these unusual birds in their naturalenvironment. They hover near an orchid, atype of flower. The birds may have fed mo-ments earlier on the flower’s nectar. Whatprinciple of art has the artist used to draw theviewer’s attention to the birds and flower?
Lesson 5 Birds in Art 133/rhombus6Figure 7–11 How many
different textures and shapescan you find in this richpainting? 
Martin Johnson Heade. Cattleya
Orchid and Three BrazilianHummingbirds. 1871. Oil on
wood. 34.8 /H1100345.6 cm (13
3⁄4/H11003
18/H11033). National Gallery of Art,
Washington, D.C. Gift of 
Morris and Gwendolyn CafritzFoundation.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is an illumination? For what were
illuminations used?
2.In what way is a line of calligraphy different
from other kinds of lines? 
3.What is the environment of the birds in 
Figure 7–11?
Ancient Persian Art
Historical connection. Islam is one of the
largest religions in the world. Followers ofIslam are known as Muslims. Countries inthe Middle East, including Saudi Arabia,Iraq, and Iran, have large Muslimpopulations. Islam began in the earlyseventh century by the ProphetMuhammad, an Arab born in 570. Theteachings of Muhammad are written downin the Muslim holy book, called the Koran.
Before the twentieth century, the country
of Iran was known as Persia to the Westernworld. In ancient Persia, the advent of Islam
created a need for copies of the Koran. Theancient Persian arts of calligraphy and bookillumination developed out of this need.Because the Koran forbids the worship ofidols, artists were not allowed to includerepresentations of human or animal figuresin their work. Instead, they focused oncreating beautiful calligraphy that was initself a work of art. In some nonreligiousbooks, however, representations of livingbeings were allowed (see Figure 7-10 ).
Can you identify any cultural influences inFigure 7–10?