WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sketch paper
●Assorted colors of construction paper, 
12 x 18 inches
●Oil pastels or crayons
●Small sheet of paper or paper towel
●Scraps of construction paper 
●White glue
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Study the house in the picture. Complete
several quick sketches of a similar house.Begin with simple shapes such as squares,triangles, rectangles, and half circles. Usethese to build arches, towers, andcolumns. These are vertical posts that rise to
support another structure. Add a porch and
a variety of window and door shapes.
2.Choose your best sketch. Using oil
pastels, transfer your design to a sheet ofconstruction paper. Begin with a lightcolor of pastel. Use this to draw the linesand shapes of the house, doors, andwindows. While you work, place a smallsheet of paper or a paper towel underyour hand. This will prevent the colorsfrom smearing.
3.Add railings and decorative touches like
the ones in Figure 9–8. Use differentcombinations of repeated lines—straight,zigzag, curved—and shapes to inventpatterns, natural rhythms, and textures.Decorate every surface of the house. 
4.After your drawing is complete, make a
border for the picture. Use small squaresof construction paper for this. Choosecolors that complement your housedesign. For variety, you may want to cut
some of the squares into triangles, circles,diamonds, or other shapes. Layer theshapes and colors to make a regular oralternating rhythm around the picture.Glue them down.
Lesson 4 Creating a Fanciful Exterior 171/rhombus6Figure 9–10 Student work. A fanciful exterior.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Does your house have features
and decorations like those in Figure 9–8?
●Analyze Did you use a variety of
patterns, textures, and details to decorateall the spaces of the house?
●Interpret What part of the house looks
the most important? What details con-tribute to this feeling?
●Judge Compare your house with the
one in Figure 9–8. Explain how they arealike and how they are different. Is yourdesign successful?Evaluating Y our Work
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Demonstrate technical skills effectively to pro-
duce a ceramic version of your fanciful exterior.Use the slab method to make the base of yourfaçade. Attach various architectural details to
your base creating a relief. Finally, use glaze or
paint to enhance it with color. Refer to TechniqueTips on page 285.Visual Art Journal
Conduct in-progress analyses of
personal artworks. As you begin
step 2, analyze your work and selectyour best sketch. Keep the other
sketches in your portfolio to showyour progression as an artist.