●Construction paper in a variety of colors
●White glue
●Chalk or markers
●Tempera paints 
●Mixing tray
●Brushes, paper towels
●Avariety of found objects
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Complete several pencil sketches of an
imaginary scene. Include buildings, trees,and other objects. Select a point of viewthat suggests depth. One possibility mightbe a view looking down a city street.
2.Turn the box on its side. On the outside of
the box, use colored construction paper todecorate the bottom, sides, back, and top.Glue the paper in place. Allow time forthe glue to dry.
3.Select your best sketch. Using chalk or
markers, transfer the scene to the backwall of the box. Sketch the lines ofbuildings along the sides of the box. Thelines of objects should mirror the naturallines of the box.
4.Choose hues of tempera paint that reflect
the colors of objects in your scene. Youmight use brown for buildings, gray forpavements. Mix duller intensities andlighter values of these hues. These will beused to show objects in the distance. Usea fine brush to add details, such as doorsand windows.
5.Use found materials to form free-standing
houses, trees, and other objects in yoursketch. Gravel might be used for a stonefence, for example. Bark might be used fortree trunks. To give a sense of deep space,glue larger, more colorful objects in the
foreground. Smaller, less colorful objectsshould be placed farther back.
6.Display your finished work
Lesson 6 Creating a Diorama 95
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe What have you included in
your diorama? 
●Analyze Did you use changes in hue,
value, and intensity to create the feeling of
deep space? Did you use placement ofobjects to help carry out this feeling?
●Interpret Would anyone looking at your
diorama think it is much deeper than itactually is?
●Judge Does your diorama succeed in
using real and suggested space?Evaluating Y our Work
/rhombus6Figure 5–16 Student work. A diorama.
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Do a realistic painting of the scene in your
diorama. Y our painting should use linear per-spective to suggest depth. Refer to Figure 5–15on page 94 to help you plan this project. Usesize, overlapping, and values and intensities ofhues to help create a feeling of space.Visual Art Journal
Learn more about the visual trick
camera obscura as a way of seeing
perspective in an artwork. It was theforerunner of the camera. Look it up
on the Internet or in encyclopedias.Write your findings in your journal.