leaves. He uses different values of green and
yellow to capture lines and details. How doeshe create a sense of depth in this painting?What aesthetic view would you use to judgethis work? (See Chapter 4, pages 64–65 for areview of the aesthetic views.)
The artist who made this drawing is
Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo had many tal-ents. He was an architect, a musician, and aninventor. As an artist, he filled many sketch-books with drawings like the one on thispage. He often included detailed written de-scriptions of what he saw. Study Figure 6–6.Do you recognize the objects hanging be-tween the leaves of the branches? Leonardocalled them “oak nuts.” You probably knowthem better as acorns. Notice how the artisthas created three dimensions working withpencil. How many different textures can youfind in this work? 
A Painting of Nature Up Close
Not all studies of nature are drawings.
The work in Figure 6–7 is a painting. It was
done around the same time as Leonardo’s nature study. Like Figure 6–6, it shows aclose-up view of plant life. 
Study this painting. In it, the artist focuses
mainly on the shapes and patterns of the
Lesson 3 Nature Up Close 109/rhombus6Figure 6–7 Examine the way in which the artist used
form and texture in this painting.
Albrecht Dürer. The Great Piece of Turf. c. 1503. Watercolor on
paper. 41.3 /H1100331.8 cm (161⁄4/H11003121⁄2/H11033). The Bridgeman Art Library,
London. Albertina Graphic Collection, Vienna, Austria.
Leonardo da Vinci  (1452–1519)
Cultural connection. Although he is
probably most famous for his paintings, suchas Mona Lisa and The Last Supper, artist
Leonardo da Vinci was one of the greatestscientific minds of the Renaissance. Hestudied many fields of science, includingbotany, anatomy, and astronomy. Leonardofilled notebooks with designs and drawingsfor inventions, such as aircraft and war
machines, which were centuries ahead oftheir time.
Leonardo da Vinci was born in 1452 in the
village of Vinci, Italy, not far from Florence.(The name da Vinci is Italian for “from Vinci.”)
He was fascinated by nature and wanted tounderstand the workings of what he ob-served. Leonardo used drawings as a way tostudy nature (see Figure 6-6 ) and as a tool
for planning his artistic compositions. Com-
pare the depiction of nature in Figures 6–6and 6–7. How are they similar? What are their differences?
To learn more about Leonardo da Vinci
and his work, click on Artist Profiles atart.glencoe.com .
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is a study? What is a nature study?
2.What were some of Leonardo da Vinci’s
talents besides art?
3.What is the point of view of the painting in
Figure 6–7?
