BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 12.
After each number, write the term from thelist that matches each description below.
appliqué Old Stone Age
calligraphy porcelainenvironment symbolfolk art tapestryillumination totemmascot trait
1.The historical period that occurred
between 30,000 and 10,000 
B.C.
2.Surroundings.
3.Afine-grained, high-quality form of
pottery.
4.Awoven wall hanging with decorative
designs or colorful scenes.
5.An art form in which cutout shapes are
attached to a larger surface.
6.Art made by artists who have had no
formal training.
7.The art of beautiful writing.
8.An image used to stand for a quality 
or an idea.
9.Ahand-painted book illustration.
10.An animal or person used by a group as 
a sign of luck.
11.Personal characteristic.
12.An object that serves as an emblem or
respected symbol. 
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 13 to 18.
Answer each question in a complete sentence.
13.What do experts believe was the purpose
of the cave paintings?
14.Explain why experts believe a sculpture
of a hippo was placed in the tomb ofSenbi.
15.Name two ways in which an appliqué
can be fastened to a background surface.16.What art element was emphasized most
in Persian painting? 
17.What effects are achieved through the 
use of this element in the illumination in Figure 7–10?
18.What did the color yellow symbolize for
Franz Marc?
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
19.Language Arts. Select an artwork in
this chapter with symbolic meaning.Explain the symbol. Write a briefparagraph describing how it adds to yourappreciation of the work. 
20.Science .Learn about carbon-14 dating.
This is a technique scientists have used toprove that cave paintings were reallydone thousands of years ago. Use anencyclopedia or online resource. Shareyour findings with your class.
Chapter 7 Review 141
National Museum of Wildlife Art,
Jackson Hole,Wyoming
Create a wildlife and landscape compo-
sition using the art principles. Experiencethe artistic process online by visiting theNational 
Museum of Wildlife Art. Go to
art.glencoe.com and click on the 
museum’s link.
Begin your composition by selecting a land-
scape photograph, crop it, and then drag anassortment of animals to create your wildlifeartwork.
Evaluate your composition.What principles
of art did you use? What is the overall theme?Describe the animals in your painting.