●Pens, watercolors, or markers 
●Brushes
●Scissors
●Hole punch, book brads
●String or wooden dowel 1⁄4inch or less in
diameter
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.With classmates, brainstorm a list of
joyous festivals. Exchange information on animal shapes and other imagesassociated with these festivals.
2.Working alone, choose a festival. Make
several sketches of an image connectedwith it. The image should be one that haspotential for a kinetic art project. Yourobject should have at least two parts,such as a body and tail (see Figure 13–8).Arms, legs, and a head are otherpossibilities.
3.Transfer your best sketch to tagboard.
Draw outline shapes for all of the parts of your object. Fill as much of the surfaceas possible. Add details and color withpens, watercolors, or markers. Cover theentire surface of each part with color.Repeat lines and shapes to create arhythmic pattern. Emphasize one part 
by introducing visual texture.
4.With scissors, carefully cut all parts out of
the tagboard. Use a hole punch to makeholes at the points where the parts will bejoined. Use book brads to attach the parts.Make an additional hole in either the topor bottom of your creation. Tie stringthrough this hole if your object is to behung. Insert a wooden dowel as support ifyour object is a shadow puppet.5.Share your work with classmates. Can
they identify the festival you have chosen?
Lesson 4 Creating Kinetic “Festival” Art 251
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Identify the type of kinetic art
you have created. Indicate the energy
source—the wind or muscle power, forexample.
●Analyze Tell whether you repeated lines
and shapes to create a rhythmic pattern.Point to a part you emphasized by adding
visual texture.
●Interpret Explain how the art object will
be used. State whether it expresses thejoyous mood of the festival.
●Judge Explain whether your artwork is
successful. Tell whether the parts movefreely.Evaluating Y our Work
/rhombus6Figure 13–9 Student work. Shadow puppet.
The work you include in your portfolio will
demonstrate what you have done and how youdid it. Written self-reflections help you definegoals and recognize achievements. A teachermay use your portfolio to evaluate your progresstoo. A portfolio is evidence of your participation,understanding, and growth as an artist.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEASVisual Art Journal
Conduct in-progress analyses of
personal artworks. As you begin
step 3, analyze your work and selectyour best sketch. Keep the other
sketches in your portfolio to showyour progression as an artist.