in rites of passage. The privilege of wearing an
adenla is reserved for royalty. 
As you study this object, take note of the
birdlike figure at the top. Many Yorubanadenla are decorated with woodpeckers.These are symbolic of the class structure—the“pecking order”—in this West African society. The long-beaded threads extendingfrom the brim form a veilof sorts. The pur-
pose is not to protect the new king from cu-rious glances. Rather, it is to force his owngaze inward, to remind him of his obligationto serve his people well. attention to detail. Who do you suppose the
human figures toward the base of the hatmight be? 
African Rite of Passage Object
The custom of wearing a birthday hat in
China is widespread. The “hat” in Figure
13–11 , by contrast, is worn by a chosen few.
This object is an adenla (uh- den-luh), or
“King’s Crown.” It was created by an artistof the Yoruba people of West Africa. Anadenla is a sculpted ceremonial headdress used
Lesson 5 Celebrating Rites of Passage 253/rhombus6Figure 13–11 What kinds of shapes appear throughout
this object? How would you describe the colors that havebeen used? What steps has the artist taken to achieveharmony?
Africa. Yoruba. King’s Crown (adenla). c. 1930. Bamboo framework,
beads, cloth, leather. H: 50.8 cm plus 58.4 cm beaded fringe (20 /H11033
plus 23 /H11033fringe). Diameter: 31 cm (121⁄4/H11033). The Saint Louis Museum
of Art, St. Louis, Missouri. Purchase: Museum Shop Fund.
Making a Hat
Demonstrate your technical skills.
Use a variety of art media to produce adesign of a hat or headdress for a specialevent in your life. Begin by cutting a circle
from construction paper and then cuttinga slit from the outer edge to the center.Pull together the “flaps” on either side ofthe cut to make a cone. Fasten withstaples or transparent tape. Decorateyour hat with beads, lace, and other
found objects that convey the theme and
mood of your chosen event.
PORTFOLIO 
Write an evaluation of how well your
hat or headdress reflects the theme andmood of the event. Add this to yourportfolio with a photograph of the hat.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.Compare and contrast Figures 13–10 and
13–11.
2.Identify the influence of Y oruban political
structure in an adenla.
