BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 6. After
each number, write the term from the list thatmatches each description below.
architectural juxtapose
rendering social protest 
belvedere paintingfantasy art Surrealists
1.Abuilding designed to provide a view 
of its surroundings.
2.Adetailed, realistic two-dimensional
representation of a proposed three-
dimensional structure.
3.Group of artists who explored the realm
of dreams and the subconscious.
4.Place side by side.
5.An art style dedicated to attacking the 
ills of big-city life. 
6.Art that focuses on make-believe or
imaginary subjects.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 7 to 12. An-
swer each question in a complete sentence.
7.What fantasy images turned up often in
art of the Middle Ages?
8.When did the Surrealists work?
9.Who was René Magritte? For what is 
he best noted?
10.What is the significance of the title of
Figure 14–7?
11.What did social protest artists frequently
criticize in their works?
12.What makes the print in Figure 14–10
“impossible”?
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
13.Language Arts. Look back at Figure
14–4 on page 266. Notice the manner inwhich the painting seems to suggest astory. Think about the story the artwork
tells. Then write a short poem thatcaptures the action and emotions. 
14.Social Studies. Use library or online
resources to learn more about the Great
Depression and its aftermath. In thecourse of your research, answer thefollowing questions: What caused thiseconomic disaster? Which nations wereaffected by it? What measures were takenin this country to recover from its effects?Share your findings in the form of an oralreport. Find images by Ben Shahn,
Reginald Marsh, and other social protestpainters to display during yourpresentation.
Chapter 14 Review 277
The J. Paul Getty Museum,
Los Angeles, California
In this chapter, you learned how artists
use their imaginations to create fantasy art.Many artists have imagined and expressedtheir idea of life in outer space. Go toart.glencoe.com and click on The Getty
museum link to explore the different images
of space through art.
You will discover how different cultures
have expressed their vision of the universe.Through a variety of artworks, you willexplore different images of the universe.
What did you learn about the universe whenlooking at and reading about these images? 
Describe your vision of outer space. Do
any of the images reveal a similar vision?