2.With several classmates, select and bring
to class two ordinary vegetables and a jaror bottle. These are to be used as subjectsfor your still life. You may also wish tobring a colorful piece of cloth to serve as abackdrop. Place these objects on a table-top. Strive for an interesting arrangement.
3.Using light pencil lines, complete a
drawing of the still life. Make sure to fill the entire sheet of drawing paper.
4.With a large flat brush, paint your still
life. Work with lighter hues first and add darker hues little by little. Use a drybrush technique to apply the paint withsingle brushstrokes. Avoid scrubbing
over painted areas. As you move your
dry brush over the surface of the paper,some portions will remain unpainted.Leave them this way.
5.Dip the wooden skewer into black india
ink. Use this to create broken lines toemphasize contours or edges and to adddetails and textures. 
Lesson 4 Painting a Watercolor Still Life 191/rhombus6Figure 10–9 Student work. Watercolor still life.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Identify all the objects in your
painting.
●Analyze Did you leave areas of your
picture unpainted to suggest highlights andgive your work a fresh look? Did you usebroken ink lines to sharpen contours andadd details and textures?
●Interpret Would you describe your work
as light and fresh-looking, or dark andsomber?
●Judge Do you think you succeeded in
making a visually appealing painting usingordinary vegetables? Why or why not?Evaluating Y our Work
PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEASVisual Art Journal
Form generalizations about the
interdependence of the artelements and principles inFigure 10–8. Next, describe in yourjournal your use of the art elementsand principles in your still life.From time to time, review your portfolio con-
tents. If you have been using it to hold all yournotes, sketches, and finished artworks, youmight want to review your selections and replacesome of your entries. Remember, your goal isto present a portfolio of works that communi-cates your growth as an artist.