212 Chapter 11 Recording EventsFor as long as there have been people, there
have been explorers. There have also beencountless stories of the brave men and womenwho ventured into the unknown and forgednew paths. In this lesson, you will view visualrecords of two explorations. You will also learn
about the media used to create such records.
PASTEXPLORATION
The first explorers were probably cave
dwellers curious to know what lay beyondthe next hill. It was not until around 1500 thatexploration got under way in earnest. Dur-ing this century, pioneers began embarkingon journeys that would, in the end, make theworld seem smaller.
Mosaic Frieze
One of these pioneering expeditions is the
subject of the colorful work in Figure 11–10 .
This work is a frieze (freez ), a decorative band
running across the upper part of a wall. Thisfrieze recounts the adventures of French-
Canadian explorers Jacques Marquette andLouis Joliet. The two set out in the late 1600son a quest to locate the source of the Missis-sippi River. Look closely at the work. All thefigures and objects are made up of pictures
made with small cubes of colored marble, glass, ortile set into cement. This art medium and the
art form that results are known as mosaic
(moh- zay-ik). Notice the care with which the
artist mixed and matched pieces to createsubtle shadings and depth. Can you find thelifelike images of the two explorers?
RECENT EXPLORATION
Since the time of Marquette and Joliet, 
our planet’s deepest secrets have been laidopen. Explorers of the second half of thetwentieth century were left with only one direction in which to go. That direction wasup. Many turned their attention to the “finalfrontier”—space. 
LESSON 5
Recording ExplorationLESSON 5
/rhombus6Figure 11–10 Look at the detail in this mosaic. What do you think are some of the
challenges facing artists working in this medium?
J. A. Holzer. Departure of Marquette and Joliet from St. Ignace on Their First Voyage to Illinois.
1895. 1.2 /H110032.7 m (4 /H110039/H11032). Harr, © Hedrich-Blessing.
