WHATYOUWILLNEED
●White drawing paper, 9 x 12 inches
●Tempera paints—two primary colors 
and white
●Wash or bristle brush 
●Cup of water, paper towels
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.On a plastic plate, take spoonfuls of two
primary colors and white tempera paint.Your teacher will divide the class into
three groups and give red and yellow toone, red and blue to another, and yellowand blue to the third.
2.Wet your brush, squeeze the water out 
of it with your fingers, and dip it into oneprimary color. Paint an area on yourpaper. Rinse your brush and dry it withthe towel before you start using a newcolor.
3.Dip into the second primary and begin
blending the two colors on your paperuntil you get the secondary color —green or
orange or purple. 
4.Continue adding more of each primary
color as you fill your paper, trying tomake new colors each time. Blend thecolors into each other.
5.When you have mixed many new colors,
begin adding white to all of your colorsto get tints.
Lesson 4 Mixing Colors 13
A portfolio is a carefully selected collection of
artwork kept by students and professionals. As
you keep your art projects in a portfolio, it will give
you the opportunity to:
●Store your artwork in one place and in 
good condition.
●Show that you can apply art concepts, 
techniques, and skills.
●Demonstrate your growth as an artist.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEAS
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Point out in your painting the
secondary color you mixed and the manyvariations you blended. Locate the tints you
made by mixing white with your colors.
●Analyze Discuss the experience of dis-
covering new colors. What happened whenyou blended the colors longer with your
brush?Evaluating Y our Work
/rhombus6Figure 1–13b Student work.  Mixing primary colors.
/rhombus6Figure 1–13a Student work.  Mixing primary colors.
Visual Art Journal
Walk through the produce section
of a supermarket. List in your journalall the colors you find in fruits andvegetables. Add adjectives to each
one to describe the color and thetexture of each.