Object Based on Myth
The subject of Figure 12–6 is a creature
that is often used to represent evil in the leg-ends of our own culture. Can you identifythis mythical beast? It is a fire-breathingdragon. Study the menacing frown, flaringnostrils, and glowing red eyes. Don’t botherlooking for the brave knight you are accus-tomed to seeing wherever dragons lurk. InChina, where this object was created, drag-ons are a symbol of good luck. A costume likethis is typically worn by the lead figure in aparade to bring in the Chinese New Year. Canyou think of other cultures you have learnedabout in which frightening masks are wornon happy occasions? How has the artist usedthe element of line to emphasize the dragon’sfierceness?Sculpture Based on Legend
The sculpture in Figure 12–7 depicts an-
other figure meant to bring luck. The workwas created in India.
This unusual figure is Ganesha, the 
Hindu god of good fortune. Works like thisonce adorned the walls of Hindu temples. Thestory of Ganesha’s creation is told in severalHindu myths. How did the sculptor go aboutbreathing life and energy into this being?
Lesson 3 Myths and Legends 229
/rhombus6Figure 12–7 Analyze the use of movement and form in
this sculpture.
The Hindu God Ganesha and His Consorts. Early eleventh cen-
tury. Cream sandstone. 41.5 cm (161⁄3/H11033). John H. and Ernestine
A. Payne Fund, Helen S. Coolidge Fund, Asiatic Curator’sFund, John Ware Willard Fund, and Marshall H. Gould Fund.Courtesy of Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.
Chinese New Year
Cultural connection. The traditional
Chinese calendar is a lunar calendar, basedon the cycles of the moon. Following thiscalendar, the new year begins somewherebetween late January and early February.Although the Chinese have adopted theWestern calendar, the lunar calendar is still
used to celebrate festive occasions such asthe Chinese New Y ear.
The traditional Chinese New Y ear cele-
bration begins with the new moon on thefirst day of the new year. It lasts until the fullmoon 15 days later. On New Y ear’s Eve, theChinese shoot off firecrackers to symbolizedriving away evil spirits. According to tra-dition, all doors and windows should beopened at midnight to allow the old year togo out. The Chinese New Y ear is celebratedwith festivals and parades, highlighted by adragon dance (see Figure 12–6 ). Compare
the Chinese Dragon in Figure 12–6 with theHindu sculpture in Figure 12–7.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.Compare the two artworks on these pages
and describe what they have in common.
2.What differences do you detect?
