MURALS
The artist who painted the fresco in Figure
12–10, Diego Rivera, was a notable Mexicanartist. So was the individual responsible forthe work in Figure 12–11 . His name was David
Alfaro Siqueiros (ahl- far-oh see- cay-rohs). This
gigantic work is a mural , a type of public art
done on a wall. The mural shown here gracesthe outside of an arts center in Mexico City.There are 12 such works, one for each of thesides of this oddly shaped building. Eachmural addresses a different theme. Examinethis giant artwork. What story does it tell?How would you describe its composition?
Frescoes that Tell a Story
The fresco in Figure 12–10 was painted in
the early 1930s. Observe the work’s physicaldimensions. The figures and objects in it havebeen painted life-size. Notice the painting’sunusual shape. The artist has provided a cut-
away of a house under construction. This is a
view in which an outside wall has been removedto reveal the scene within. Most of the details in
this painting are activities you would expectto find in such a scene. There are workers incoveralls laying foundations and men in busi-ness suits reviewing plans. 
However, there is more to this painting
than meets the eye. Notice the title. The frescodepicts not the building of a house but of acity. People from all walks of life work co-operatively toward a common goal. What isthat goal? In what way is a house a fittingsymbol of a city?
Lesson 5 Art Stories Larger than Life 233/rhombus6Figure 12–11 This building, which was completed the
year the artist died, bears his name. The mural shown covers274 square meters. 
David Alfaro Siqueiros. Poliforum. 1974. Acrylic enamel on
asbestos-cement and steel. 15 m (49 /H1103221⁄2/H11033). Mexico City, Mexico.
Mexican Government Tourism Office, New York.
Diego Rivera  (1886–1957)
Cultural connection. Diego Rivera is best
known for painting large murals on the sidesof public buildings. Many of his murals tellstories of his native Mexico, including itshistory and culture. Rivera often exploredsocial and political themes in his work.
Born in Guanajuato, Mexico, in 1886,
Rivera studied art at the Academy of SanCarlos in Mexico City. He also took two tripsto Europe to study art. When Rivera returnedto his homeland in 1921, he began paintingmurals and frescoes (see Figure 12–10 ). His
murals are found on many buildings in
Mexico and also in the United States. Riveradied in 1957, leaving behind an unfinishedmural for the National Palace in Mexico City.
To learn more about Rivera and his work,
click on Artist Profiles at art.glencoe.com .
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is a fresco? What is the origin of the
word? 
2.Compare ways in which the works on these
pages are similar. How are the twodifferent? 
