WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Select a person whom you admire. This
might be a relative, a leader in your com-munity or state, a teacher, or anyone elsewho inspires you.
2.Think about images that communicate
information about this person’s appear-ance and accomplishments. These mightinclude photographs and picturesclipped from magazines that symbolizethe person’s importance to you. Gatheran assortment of such materials.
3.Trace a circle that will fit the outside mea-
surement of the lid on colored constructionpaper. Choose a color that is in keepingwith your tribute. Make a second circle thesame size on a thin sheet of cardboard. Cutout both circles. Glue them together.
4.Arrange the photographs and images you
have gathered on the colored constructionpaper circle. When you are satisfied withthe arrangement, glue these in place. Fillthe negative spaces between and aroundthe images with strips of tissue paper,gold foil, or colored lines. Be creative! Setthis object aside to dry.
5.Gather strands of thin yarn or cut paper
strips in several colors. These shouldblend with those of the constructionpaper and images, so as to create har-mony. Form an interesting pattern withthe yarn or paper strips and glue them to the edge of the plastic lid to make aborder and add repetition to the work.
6.Glue your circle to the flat surface of 
the lid.
Lesson 8 Celebrating a Role Model 259/rhombus6Figure 13–17 Student work. A role model.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Describe the materials used in
your tribute. Identify the individual you are
honoring.
●Analyze Does your work achieve
harmony through the use of color? Haveyou used interesting patterns in the border
as an organizing principle?
●Interpret Explain the idea, mood, and
message your work expresses about itssubject.
●Judge How does your work compare
with that in Figure 13–16? In what ways isit similar? How is it different?Evaluating Y our Work
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation. Analyze the original art-
works of your peers. Examine the mixed-media
tribute to a role-model they created and form con-clusions about formal properties. For example,how did they apply variety and harmony in theirdesign?
Careers in art. To learn more about
art-related careers, visit our Website at  art.glencoe.com and click
on Career Corner. Compare the dif-ferent career opportunities and
make note of those that in-terest you.