eye.” Your bird might terrify your
viewers or it may make them smile andeven laugh. Make several sketches of your bird.
4.Using your best sketch as a model, re-
draw your bird on a sheet of drawingpaper. Make sure that the drawing fillsthe paper. Use a firm, continuous line. 
5.Cut a variety of large and small shapes
from sheets of colored tissue paper. Whenyou have enough to cover your drawing,glue these carefully in place. Use whiteglue thinned with water for this purpose.Then lay the tissue paper on the dampsurface. Smooth it out gently with yourhand. Then carefully brush a second coatof glue across the surface of the tissue. Ifyour brush picks up any color from thewet tissue, wipe it off on a paper towel. 
6.Continue in this fashion, adding layer
upon layer of tissue paper. Always gluethe darkest colors of tissue in place first.Add subtle shadings of color by addingpieces of lighter tissue over pieces of
darker ones. 
7.When all the tissue is dry, add lines to
suggest feathers or other designs. Do this with lengths of colored yarn or witha black marker or pen, or with both.
Lesson 2 Creating a Fantasy Bird Collage 267/rhombus6Figure 14–5 Student work.
Fantasy bird collage.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Is your drawing easily
identified as a bird? Can you point to thedifferent features of your bird? 
●Analyze Is your bird large and colorful?
Does it contain a variety of textures? 
●Interpret What kinds of emotions or
feelings do you think your bird collage will
arouse in viewers?
●Judge Do you think your bird is a
success? Do you feel it can be describedas fantasy art?Evaluating Y our Work
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation. Analyze the original portfo-
lios of your peers to form conclusions about formalproperties and historical and cultural contexts. Se-lect a few of their artworks and evaluate how theycommunicated their ideas.Visual Art Journal
In your journal, describe your fan-
tasy bird. What would you do differ-ently next time? Explain yourreasons.