Zigzag
Zigzag lines are formed by joining several
diagonals that move in different directions.The diagonals form sharp angles that makelines change direction suddenly. Zigzag linescreate confusion. They suggest action or ner-vous excitement ( Figure 1–7 ). 
LINEQUALITY
Think about the crease in a pair of freshly
ironed trousers. Would you describe this“line” as smooth or rough? How about a linemade with chalk? Smoothness, roughness,thickness, and thinness each represent a dif-ferent line quality. This quality is the unique
character of any line.
How a line appears depends on several
factors. These include:
●The tool used. Acrayon produces a slightly
ragged line. A paintbrush dipped in inkproduces a line that narrows and trailsoff. 
●The pressure of the artist’s hand. Pressing
down on a tool creates a thicker line.Using less pressure creates a thinner line.How would you describe the quality ofthe lines in Figure 1–8? Are the lines
smooth or rough? Are they thick or thin?
Lesson 2 Line 7
Check Your 
Understanding
1.Name the five directions a line can take.
2.Tell how each of the line types can make a
viewer feel or react.
3.What is line quality?
Experimenting with Lines
Demonstrate technical skills. Start
developing your art skills by using avariety of art tools. These might include
pencil, marker, brush and ink, chalk, andcrayon. Practice using the tools to drawlines. Notice the quality of line each toolproduces. Try drawing lines that expressdifferent feelings. These might includejoy, fear, anger, and excitement. Shareyour lines with classmates.
PORTFOLIO 
Label the lines with the names of the
feelings they express. Then store your
experiment in your portfolio.
/rhombus6Figure 1–8 Analyze the different kinds of
lines  the artist has used. Describe the quality ofthese lines.
Vincent van Gogh. Corner of a Park at Arles (Tree in
a Meadow). 1889. Reed pen and black ink over
charcoal. 49.3 /H1100361.3 cm (193⁄5/H1100324/H11033). The Art
Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Gift ofTiffany and Margaret Blake, 1945.3.
