272 Chapter 14 Creating Fantasy“Seeing,” it is said, “is believing.” Gener-
ally, there is much truth to this statement.Sometimes, however, our eyes play tricks onus. They cause us to see imaginary pools ofwater shimmering in the distance when theweather is hot. They confuse us by making im-ages appear to shift and change no matter howlong we stare at them. You have probably seenoptical illusions that will not “stay still.” In this lesson, you will look at an image
that, like such illusions, fools the eye. You willexamine a second work that looks impossi-ble for entirely different reasons.
ANIMPOSSIBLE BUILDING
Some of the works you have looked at in
this chapter contain ghostly beings. Othersshow eerie, surreal landscapes. The fine artprint in Figure 14–10 fits neither of these de-
scriptions. It focuses, rather, on a perfectlystraightforward subject. The work may be seenas a kind of architectural rendering . This is a
detailed, realistic two-dimensional representation ofa proposed three-dimensional structure. In this
case, the proposal is for a belvedere (bel-vuh-
deer), a building designed to provide a view of its
surroundings. The word is a blend of the Italian
roots bel,or “beautiful,” and vedere, “view.”
Look closely at this print. It doesn’t take
long before you notice that something is ter-ribly wrong. To pinpoint the problem, locatethe two figures—one on each level—gazingout at the scenery. Both stand at a railingalong the narrow end on the structure’s right.Yet, each faces in a different direction. The
first and second floors of the belvedere havebeen juxtaposed at right angles! Note that amodel for this impossible design is locatedconveniently within the print. It appears inthe hands of the perplexed-looking figureseated on the bench near the bottom of thepicture. Could such an object really exist inthree dimensions? If you were the architect’sclient, would you approve this plan?
ANIMPOSSIBLE CITYSCAPE
In contrast to the confusing world shown
in Figure 14–10, the painting in Figure 14–11
appears to promise welcome relief. The feel-ing that you are on solid ground does not lastfor long, however. 
LESSON 5
Impossible ImagesLESSON 5
/rhombus6Figure 14–10 The artist was fond of such visual puz-
zles. Another of his prints appears in Figure 2–10 on page 34.What similarities can you find between these two works?
M. C. Escher. Belvedere. 1958. Lithograph. 46.2 /H1100329.5 cm 
(18 /H11003112⁄3/H11033). © 1996 Cordon Art, Baarn, Holland. All rights
reserved.