BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 6. After
each number, write the term from the list thatmatches each description below.
adenla seal
kinetic art shadow puppetpueblo tricolor
1.An art style in which parts of a work are
set into motion by a form of energy.
2.An art object in the shape of an animal 
or human attached to a wand or stick.
3.Dried-clay dwelling.
4.Asculpted ceremonial headdress used 
in rites of passage.
5.Af lag with three broad bands of color.
6.As y m bolic image or emblem.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 7 to 11. An-
swer each question in a complete sentence.
7.What are the paintings in Figures 13–2
and 13–3 rejoicing?
8.In what ways might Figure 13–4 be said
to be an example of impossible art?
9.What two types of dance are featured 
in Hopi culture? Which type is mostcommon?
10.Name two purposes of festivals in var-
ious cultures of the world.
11.What is a rite of passage?
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
12.Social Studies. One of the historical
figures celebrated in Figure 13–4 is RosaParks. Using various resources, researchRosa Parks’s life. Present your findings tothe class. Include readings from stories
people have written about her life.
13.Social Studies .D i f f e r e nt states and
locales have their own specific holidays.Residents of Massachusetts, for example,celebrate Patriot’s Day. Find out aboutholidays specific to your town orcommunity, such as Founder’s Day.Learn about their meaning and what theyrepresent. Design and create visual
materials—posters and a logo, forexample—for the next celebration of thisevent. Share your creations with yourclassmates.
Chapter 13 Review 261
The Museum of Fine Arts,
Houston,Texas
In this chapter, you learned about the
different ways artists have recordedcelebrations through the ages. Go toart.glencoe.com and click on the Museum 
of Fine Arts, Houston link to explore differenttypes of celebrations from various cultures.
You will discover different forms of cele-
brations and understand the meaning ofthese special events. Examine the differentimages. What is being celebrated in each of these artworks? How do the artworksdepict the particular celebration? Describethe meaning behind the festival orcelebration.