the dance pictured in Figure 13–7 ? Without
looking at the title, you can probably sensethe joyous mood and high energy level of thedancers. The painting captures a part of a vic-tory celebration in the artist’s native island ofJamaica. Can you think of a dance or “ball”with a similar purpose in our own country?
Look closely at this painting. It is divided
into three main sections. The top and bottomthirds of the picture plane are given over tomusicians in brightly colored costumes. Atthe center are the dancers, framed against afield of vivid orange. Observe how the an-gled lines of their arms, legs, and bodies helpconvey a strong sense of urgent movement.Notice the array of bold colors that make upthe buildings and plant life. What art princi-ple has the artist used to control the many col-ors and shapes in this action-filled painting?
Lesson 3 Celebration Dances in Art 249/rhombus6Figure 13–7 Would you
describe this treatment asrealistic? Has the artist usedlinear perspective or any of theother space-giving techniquesdescribed in Chapter 1?
Everald Brown. Victory Dance.
1976. Oil on canvas. 83.8 /H11003
124.5 cm (33 /H1100349/H11033). Organi-
zation of American StatesMuseum, Washington, D.C.Collection of the Art Museum ofthe Americas.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What do most Hopi dances celebrate?
2.What event is the focus of the painting in
Figure 13–7?
Hopi Ceremonies
Cultural connection. The Hopi, which
means good, peaceful, or wise, are a groupof Pueblo Indians who live on the mesas innortheastern Arizona. A mesa is an isolated
hill with a flat top. The Hopi live in pueblostructures made of stone and mud. Theirway of life revolves around farming, and
corn is their main crop.
Hopi women and men have distinct
responsibilities. Women take care of thehome and children, weave baskets, andmake pottery. Men farm, herd, build houses,weave clothing and blankets, and perform
ceremonies.
Many of these ceremonies, such as the
one illustrated in Figure 13–6 , focus on
corn and the need for rain to help the cropsgrow.In the Kachina ceremonies, Hopi men
wear colorful masks and clothing to imper-
sonate the Kachina spirits. How is thedance ceremony depicted in Figure 13–6different from that in Figure13–7?