are not limited to her splendid silk dress. Jew-
eled trinkets and pearls sparkle in her hairand on her ears, hands, and neck as well.How would you describe the look of thiswoman in all her splendor?
Jewelry from the 1700s
In Lesson 6, you learned that applied art
objects serve a dual function. At least oneitem of jewelry shares this distinction. Thatitem is a timepiece, or watch.
Such an object appears in Figure 10–15 .
The timepiece is the circular item at the verybottom of the photograph. The rest of the
image is given over to a popular jewelry ob-
ject of the day called a châtelaine (shaht-eh-
len). This châtelaine contains a key, the
watch, and a seal. Notice the repeating gem-stone motif. Do you think this repetition addsharmony to the art object? How has the artistintroduced variety?
Lesson 7 Decorative Arts 197
Sixteenth-Century England
Historical connection. The sixteenth
century was a period of great reform inEngland. During the first half of the century,King Henry VIII ruled the country. King Henryhad Parliament pass a law declaring that theking, instead of the pope, headed the churchin England. At the same time, a religiousmovement called the Reformation wasspreading throughout Europe.The Refor-mation eventually led to Protestantism.
During the second half of the sixteenth
century, Henry’s daughter Elizabethbecame the queen of England. Elizabeth I’sreign is often referred to as England’sGolden Age. It was a period of exploration,prosperity, military victory, and great litera-ture. Look at Figure 10–14 .H o w  do the
woman’s clothing and jewelry reflect the
prosperity of the time period? Compare and contrast Figures 10–14 and 8–2.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What does the portrait in Figure 10–14
reveal about life in the 1500s?
2.What two functions are served by watches?
/rhombus6Figure 10–15 This object was worn attached to a belt. What
objects are suggested in these arrangements?
German. Watch and Châtelaine. Eighteenth century, third quarter. Agate,
gold, gemstone. 15.3 cm (6 /H11033). The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York,
New York. Collection of Giovanni P . Morosini, presented by his daughter,Giulia, 1932. 
