WHATYOUWILLDO
1.You will demonstrate technical skills
effectively using a variety of art mediaand materials to produce a quilt, anexample of fiber art. With groupmembers, brainstorm an event to celebrate. Possibilities include asuccessful school fund-raising drive, acleanup campaign, or an effort to save alocal park.
2.After choosing an event, select colors 
and materials that reflect the theme andhelp create the mood. For example, youmight choose green and blue for a Savethe Earth campaign. 
3.Working by yourself, make several pencil
sketches for a quilt square. Look throughthe fabric pieces to see if any of thedesigns suggest ideas. Decide whetheryou will cut out figures and objects or use shapes and symbols to expressthe theme. 
4.Using your best sketch as a guide, cut 
out shapes from a variety of fabrics.Arrange and overlap these on a piece offabric. Attach the shapes using eitherfabric glue, fusible webbing, or needleand thread. 
5.Decide if a title will be part of the entire
quilt design. Letters may be cut from feltor fabric. The letters could be accentedwith hand sewn stitches or fabric paint.
6.Stitch all the quilt squares together. Make
an overall border for the entire quilt outof fabric scraps. 
Lesson 2 Creating an “Event” Quilt 247
/rhombus6Figure 13–5 Student work. Quilt.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Identify the objects and figures
in your quilt square. Identify the event thequilt celebrates.
●Analyze Explain how you organized the
art elements in your quilt to create harmony,variety, and unity.
●Interpret Explain how your square helps
capture the event. Describe the mood and idea your square communicates.
●Judge Were you successful in creating a
quilt that celebrates an event?Evaluating Y our Work
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Make a paper quilt that tells a story. Express
a variety of ideas based on personal experience.Choose colors and textures to emphasize theidea and mood. Use a variety of paper media.Cut out and layer shapes, symbols, or objectsthat relate to your story. Imitate cross-stitchesby drawing parallel diagonal lines or Xswith pen
or paint.Visual Art Journal
In your journal, write about work-
ing together with your classmates tocreate the “event” quilt. What didyou like most about this project. De-
scribe how you and your classmatesproceeded to make the quilt.