3.Gently scrub the brush
against the palm of yourhand to work the soap intothe brush. This removes paintyou may not have realizedwas still in the brush. 
4.Rinse the brush under run-
ning water while you con-tinue to scrub your palmagainst it (Figure T–6).
5.Repeat steps 2, 3, and 4 as
needed.
When it is thoroughly rinsed
and excess water has beensqueezed from the brush, shapeyour brush into a point withyour fingers (Figure T–7). Placethe brush in a container withthe bristles up so that it willkeep its shape as it dries.11. Maki ng Natural Earth
Pigments
Anywhere there is dirt, clay, or
sand, there is natural pigment.To create your own pigments,
gather as many different kindsof earth colors as you can.Grind these as finely as possi-ble. (If you can, borrow a mor-tar and pestle.) (See Figure T–8.)Do not worry if the pigment isslightly gritty.
To make the binder, mix
equal parts of white glue andwater. Place a few spoonfuls ofyour powdered pigment into asmall jar. Add a little of thebinder. Experiment with differ-ent amounts of each.
When you work with nat-
ural pigments, remember toalways wash the brushes beforethe paint in them has a chanceto dry. The glue from the bindercan ruin a brush. As you work,stir the paint every now andthen. This will keep the grainsof pigment from settling to thebottom of the jar.
Make a fresh batch each
time you paint.12. Mixing Paint to Change
the Value of Color
You can better control the colors
in your work when you mixyour own paint. In mixingpaints, treat opaque paints (forexample, tempera) differentlyfrom transparent paints (forexample, watercolors).•For light values of opaque paints.
Mix only a small amount ofthe hue to white. The colorcan always be made strongerby adding more of the hue. 
•For dark values of opaque paints.
Add a small amount of blackto the hue. Never add the hueto black.
•For light values of transparent
paints. Thin a shaded area
with water (Figure T–9). Thisallows more of the white ofthe paper to show through. 
•For dark values of transparent
paints. Carefully add a small
amount of black to the hue.
284 Technique TipsTECHNIQUE
TIPS
/H17073Figure T–9/H17073Figure T–7/H17073Figure T–8/H17073Figure T–6
mortarpestle