WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Divide a sheet of lined paper into two
columns. In one column, list your hob-bies, interests, likes, talents, and so on.Also include memories that have specialmeaning to you. Be sure to express avariety of ideas based on your personalexperience. In the second column, noteimages that relate to the items in the firstcolumn. If you play an instrument, forexample, you might draw severalmusical notes in the image column.
2.Look through old magazines for photo-
graphs of about half of the images youhave recorded in your second column.Choose photos in a variety of sizes. Clipthese out and arrange them in an interest-ing fashion on the sheet of drawingpaper. When you are happy with thecomposition, glue the images in place. 
3.Fill most of the remaining space on your
paper with pencil sketches of otherimages from your list. Make some of theimages larger than others. Leave somenegative space between them. Write yourname in a creative way between some ofthe images. Use block letters, squigglylines, connected circles, and so forth. 
4.Complete your illustrations with markers
and oil pastels. Use bright hues for someimages, contrasting duller hues forothers.
Lesson 2 Making a Visual Autobiography 227/rhombus6Figure 12–5 Student work. A visual autobiography.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe What images appear in your
artwork?
●Analyze How have you used size and
color contrast to suggest the importance ofsome images? 
●Interpret What does your artwork tell
about you as a person? What title wouldyou give your work? 
●Judge Decide whether your autobiography
is effective in terms of its design. Decide
whether it is effective in telling about your life.Evaluating Y our Work
Use a digital camera to produce photographic
imagery. Have a friend capture a portrait of you.Title and save your image in an art application.On a new page, draw images that reveal your in-terests and traits. Copy and paste these imagesonto your portrait page. Resize and rearrangeeach image so they overlap your portrait.COMPUTER OPTIONCOMPUTER OPTIONVisual Art Journal
In your journal, describe your vi-
sual autobiography. What qualitiesand traits were most important foryou to showcase? Why are these
qualities valuable to you? 