WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Sketch paper and pencil
●Tagboard scraps in a variety of sizes,
ranging from approximately 2 inches to 
3⁄8inch on a side.
●Scissors
●White glue
●Paper towels
●Small stiff-bristle brush
●Foil paper or aluminum foil
●Cord or yarn
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Create several sketches of pendant
designs. Your design should consist oflayered geometric shapes.
2.Choose one of the largest tagboard scraps
for the base. Following your design, cutthe tagboard into a circle, oval, square,rectangle, or other geometric shape.
3.Layer smaller geometric shapes on top 
of the base. Attach the shapes with whiteglue. Carefully blot away any excess gluewith a lightly dampened paper towel.Work little by little from larger shapes to
smaller ones. Make small round shapeswith a hole punch. Repeat similar shapes.Create a center of interest by using con-trasting shapes or by introducing a pattern.
4.Use a stiff brush to cover the completed
design with a layer of thin white glue.Carefully apply a sheet of silver or goldfoil paper or aluminum foil. Using yourfinger, gently push the foil into the cor-ners and creases of the design. 
5.Fold back any foil paper edges that ex-
tend beyond the borders of the tagboard.Glue these to the back of your ornament.
Attach cord or yarn to your pendant. 
Lesson 8 Creating a Pendant 199/rhombus6Figure 10–17 Student work. Pendant.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Describe the shapes and
textures in your design. Identify thepurpose of the jewelry.
●Analyze Explain how you organized the
design to create a center of interest. Whatshape or patterns add contrast?
●Interpret Could your pendant be worn
every day, or does it appear to be better
suited for special events? Why?
●Judge Is your work a success? Explain 
why or why not.Evaluating Y our Work
Produce an electronic media-generated ver-
sion of your pendant. Choose from the Shape andLine tools and draw a large geometric shape witha thick line. Add smaller geometric shapes on topto layer the design. Create a center of interest byusing a contrasting shape. Select the Color tooland a hue to match bronze, gold, or silver metal.COMPUTER OPTIONCOMPUTER OPTION
For additional activities, visit our
Web site at art.glencoe.com .There
you will find:
●Artist Profiles
●Career Corner
●Interactive Games
●Student Art Gallery