BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 9. After
each number, write the term from the list thatbest matches each description below.
applied art pottery
jewelry slipkiln vesselpendant watercoloristperceive
1.Clay with enough added water to give 
it a runny, liquid consistency. 
2.Art, and the craft of making art, to 
be worn.
3.Ajewelry item worn suspended from 
the neck on a string or chain.
4.Ap a i n t er who works in watercolor.
5.Ahollow utensil made to hold
something.
6.Aspecial hot oven in which pottery
objects are fired. 
7.Works of art that are made to be useful as
well as visually pleasing.
8.Art, and the craft of making art, 
from clay.
9.To become aware through the senses 
of the special nature of objects.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 10 to 13.
Answer each question in a complete sentence. 
10.What events during her life prompted
Georgia O’Keeffe to paint objects “largerthan life”? 
11.When were the first still lifes in the 
West produced? By whom were they
produced?12.Based on the objects shown in the still 
life in Figure 10–7 on page 189, what canwe suppose to be true about thegeography and culture of Japan?
13.Name two ways of judging applied art. 
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
14.Language Arts. Imagine that you are a
poet in China during the 1300s. Yourfriend, Lik’an, has just completed a scrollpainting of bamboo (see Figure 10–3 onpage 185). Write a poem that sums up thefeeling expressed by the painting.
15.Language Arts. Look back at Figures
10–7 and 10–8. Write a descriptive reportcomparing and contrasting the set ofobjects, colors, and media.
Chapter 10 Review 201
Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth,Texas
In this chapter, you learned about the
ways artists perceive objects and about art
objects from various cultures and times.
Go to art.glencoe.com and take a closer
look at some art objects by clicking on theKimbell Art Museum link.Y ou will discoverthe meaning and history behind the Africanand Oceanic objects from the museum’scollection.
Select three different objects and describe
their symbolism.What type of medium wasused? Compare and contrast the objects youselected with what you learned in this chapter.