and batons. Study the expression on the faces
of the front runners. Observe their body lan-guage. This is no ordinary relay race. It is a runfor the Olympic gold medal. Each sprinter issearching for that burst of energy that willpropel him forward across the finish line first.
Look again at the credit line below the
picture, this time at the medium. Thatmedium, gouache (gwash ), is a form of water-
color that uses non-clear pigments. Gouache cre-
ates flatter, more intense colors than normalwatercolor paints. How do the flat areas ofcolor in this painting help convey the inten-sity of the moment?
Examine the compelling photograph in Figure
11–2. Like any good reporter, the photographer
has answered the “four W’s” of journalism—who, what, when, and where. Look carefully at
the photo. The whois a crew of workers under
the guidance of sculptor Gutzon Borglum. Thewhen is 1937, the where, a mountaintop in the
Black Hills of South Dakota. The what is a giant
bust of a United States president carved out ofthe mountain’s natural granite face.
Notice that the photographer has raised a
fifth question— how to get the most interest-
ing “angle.” His answer was to take a per-sonal risk and position himself on a rockyledge a mile high in the sky. 
PAINTING
An event no less dramatic is recorded in
the painting in Figure 11–3 . The what, when,
and where are noted in the credit line below the
artwork. The who is clear from the uniforms
Lesson 1 The Media of Visual Reporting 205/rhombus6Figure 11–3 The artist has used abstraction to record
this event. Notice how he has simplified the shapes.
Jacob Lawrence. Study for the Munich Olympic Games Poster.
1971. Gouache. 90.1 /H1100368.6 cm (351⁄2/H1100327/H11033). Seattle Art Museum,
Seattle, Washington. Purchased with funds from P .O.N.C.H.O.
Jacob Lawrence  (1917–2000)
Cultural connection. Jacob Lawrence was a
storyteller. Instead of using words, however,he used his paintings to tell stories about thelives of African Americans. Born in NewJersey in 1917, Lawrence grew up inHarlem—a section of New Y ork City. In themid-1930s, he began painting scenes of streetlife in Harlem. Lawrence focused on socialconcerns, including racism and discrimination,faced by African Americans during that time.
He often 
used vivid colors in his work (see
Figure 11–3 ).Although he later moved away
from Harlem and became an art professor,Lawrence continued to paint until his death atage 82.
To learn more about Lawrence and his
work, click on Artist Profiles at
art.glencoe.com
.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.In what way are artists, who record events,
similar to newspaper reporters?
2.Each of the artworks on these pages
captures a dramatic moment. Explain howeach one succeeds.
