The printing plates for such illustrations could
be arranged conveniently alongside the type. 
In time, changes brought about through
advances in technology simplified thisprocess. Artists today are free to create bookillustrations in any medium they choose.One recent illustration appears in Figure
12–15 . Examine this artwork. It was created
to accompany a story titled “Marie and Red-fish.” The story tells of a teenager whosepath crosses that of a prince. Find the“prince” in the picture. In what ways doesthis creature remind you of the mythicalbeasts you learned about in Lesson 3? Inwhat ways does this illustration help thestory come alive in the same way as themissal illustrations did?
Lesson 7 Book Illustration 237
/rhombus6Figure 12–15 The artists have used the art element of
line to suggest action. What role does proportion play in thisbook illustration?
Leo and Diane Dillon. Marie and Redfish. Illustration by Leo
and Diane Dillon from Her Stories: African American Folktales,
Fairy Tales and True Tales by Virginia Hamilton. Illustrations
copyright © 1995 by Leo and Diane Dillon. Reprinted bypermission of Scholastic, Inc.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is an illumination? What is a missal?
2.How have book illustrations changed since
the Middle Ages?
Leo and Diane Dillon (b. 1933)
Cultural connection. Leo and Diane Dillon
share a special distinction: They are the onlyartists to win the Caldecott Medal two yearsin a row. The Caldecott Medal is a prestigious award given to children’s bookillustrators. Since 1957, the Dillons haveworked together to create many book illus-
trations, such as the one in Figure 12–15 .
Leo Dillon was born in Brooklyn, New
York, in 1933. Just 11 days later, his future
wife Diane was born in Glendale, California.Leo and Diane met in 1953 while studying at the Parsons School of Design in New Y orkCity. Although their relationship began withan intense rivalry, they eventually fell in loveand then married in 1957. Ever since, theyhave collaborated not only on book illustra-tions but also on posters, advertisements,and album covers. The Dillons work as ateam, passing a piece back and forth, witheach artist adding to and improving uponthe work in progress. The end result is aunique combination that neither artist couldhave created individually. Compare andanalyze the illustrations in Figures 12–14and 12–15.