/rhombus6Figure 12–9 Student work. Kachina.Begin construction by cutting one of the
cardboard tubes in half lengthwise. Thetwo narrow half-cylinders that result are to be the creature’s legs. Wrap a scrap ofbrightly colored construction paperaround the left leg. Secure it with trans-parent tape. Use a scrap of wrappingpaper in a busy pattern to cover the rightleg.
2.Follow a similar procedure with a second
tube to form the arms. This time, beginby cutting away about 3 inches of thetube. Then cut the remaining part in halflengthwise. Again, attach colored paperand wrapping paper, this time to theopposite limbs. Attach the arms to thebody with tape.
3.Cut two slits into the top of each leg.
Slide the upper body down into the slits.
4.Create the Kachina’s head by painting 
the top of the body tube. Use a mediumbrush to apply the base paint for thehead. Add facial features—eyes, nose,mouth—with contrasting hues. Use a finebrush for this task. The features and otherdecorations should be highly geometric,as in Figure 12–8.
5.Use found objects such as fabric scraps,
raffia, and feathers to create interestingfeatures. Add the features to yourKachina with a stapler or white glue. 
6.Use jewelry boxes or other small boxes
for the Kachina’s feet. Notch the bottomsof the legs and glue them to the boxes.Paint the feet. 
Lesson 4 Creating a Mythical Creature 231
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Point out the arms, legs, and
body of your figure. Identify wings, scales,or other such features.
●Analyze Does your Kachina exhibit
formal balance and rhythm based on color
and pattern?
●Interpret What feeling or mood is
communicated by your Kachina?
●Judge What are the best features of
your figure? What would you do differently
if you were to repeat the lesson?Evaluating Y our Work
Artwork doesn’t always fit into a folder or even
a large portfolio.What if you worked with a groupto make a three-dimensional sculpture or amural? Photographs and drawings are one way
to document the experience of working together.Another way is to write about it in detail. Whendescribing work performed in groups, outline thegoal and list each member’s responsibility.Thenfocus on your own specific tasks for self-reflec-
tion and evaluation.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEAS
For additional activities, check out
our Web site at art.glencoe.com .
There you will also find:
●Artist Profiles
●Career Corner
●Interactive Games
●Museum Web Links