BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 7. After
each number, write the term from the list thatmatches each description below.
cartouche Kachina
cutaway petroglyphfont pictogramfresco
1.Av i e w  in which an outside wall has been
removed to reveal the scene within.
2.Typeface.
3.Asymbolic rock carving or painting.
4.Apainting created when pigment is
applied to a section of wall spread withfresh plaster.
5Ahand-crafted statuette that represents
spirits in Pueblo rituals.
6.An oval or oblong containing an impor-
tant person’s name.
7.As m a ll picture that stands for a word 
or an idea.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 8 to 13.
Answer each question in one or two completesentences.
8.What is a hieroglyphic? When did an-
cient Egyptian hieroglyphic come intobeing?
9.How old are Native American
petroglyphs?
10.How is the dragon viewed in the Chinese
culture?
11.What are Kachinas believed to represent?
12.From what language does the word 
fresco come? What does it mean in that
language?
13.Why were illuminations common in the
Middle Ages?CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
14.Language Arts. Write a report describ-
ing how the art of visual storytelling haschanged from earliest times through thepresent.
15.Language Arts. At your school or local
library, find a poem about mythical crea-tures, such as “Dragon” by Karla Kuskinor “Ganesha, Ganesh” by Myra CohnLivingston. Compare the poem’s subjectand meaning with what you learned inthe lesson about such mythical creatures.Share your findings with the class.
Chapter 12 Review 241
DeCordova Museum and Sculpture Park,
Lincoln, Massachussetts
This chapter demonstrates the many
ways artists tell stories through their art.
Children’s book illustrations are a goodexample of telling stories through pictures.
Go to art.glencoe.com and click on the
DeCordova Museum link to take a look atthe art of children’s book illustrations.Y ouwill view different book illustrations rangingin subjects and themes from alphabetbooks, myths, folk and fairy tales, to fantasy,adventure, mystery, and drama.
Select three different illustrations and
explain how they reveal the story’s theme.
Describe the style of the different illustra-tions. What techniques did the artists use tocreate the illustrations? Were you able toidentify the book’s subject or theme by onlylooking at the illustration? 