WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Writing pad and pencil
●Yardstick or other long straight edge
●Sheet of white drawing paper, 
18 x 24 inches
●Markers
●Camcorder 
●VHS videotape cassette
●Tripod (optional)
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.You will demonstrate technical skills
effectively using a video camera toproduce electronic media-generated art.With a group of students, brainstorm
possible events that would make goodtopics for a video documentary. Choosesubjects and locations that are realistic. 
2.After choosing an event, make a list of ten
or more images that are important to yoursubject. Note these on the writing pad.Organize your images into an outline.
3.Create a story board. With the pencil and
yardstick or other straight edge, drawlines to divide a large sheet of drawingpaper into 16 sections. In each section,sketch a scene from your outline. Usemarkers to add color to your story board. 
4.Write an introduction to your documen-
tary. Make sure the camcorder has beenloaded with a videotape cassette and thatthe battery is charged. Set up the cam-corder on a tripod if you wish, and tapeyourself reading the introduction. Alter-natively, you might ask a friend to serveas your narrator. 
5.Following your story board, shoot your
video scene by scene. Tell what you see as
you tape to provide a running commentary .
Include close-ups, long shots, and pans.
6.Plan your closing. Include a wrap-up
commentary.
Lesson 8 Making a Video Documentary 219
/rhombus6Figure 11–17 Student work. A story board.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Did you plan your documen-
tary? Did you create a story board to helporganize the action?
●Analyze Did you add variety to your
video by including close-ups, long shots,and pans? 
●Interpret Did you cover the event you set
out to cover? How did you capture themood or emotion of the event?
●Judge Hold an “Academy Awards” cere-
mony for your class. Vote on awards forwinners in the following categories: MostInteresting Topic; Most Original Coverage;Most Skillful Use of Equipment.Evaluating Y our Work
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Do a video interview with a member of your
class. Prepare a list of questions to ask that willbring out the interests and talents of your sub-ject. Videotape your interview.Visual Art Journal
In your journal, describe in detail
the process you used to create yourvideo documentary. What did youlearn? What would you do differentlynext time? 