might the artist be making? Notice the title.
Maybe this artwork is a comment on the in-ability of some people to tell where reality be-gins and ends. Can you think of advances inour own time that have helped blur the linebetween fantasy and reality?
A P UZZLING PAINTING FROM
THE1980 S
Compare the painting in Figure 14–7 with
the one just analyzed. The work on this pagewas completed fifty-five years later. Yet, thetwo share a similar theme. Both, moreover,present “pictures within a picture.”
As you study Figure 14–7, you find once
again that first impressions can be deceiving.At first glance, this painting appears to benothing more than a pleasant seascape. Oncloser inspection, you begin noticing detailsthat are hard to explain. A trio of gently swaying palm trees at the left, for example,appears rooted to a wooden tabletop. On theright side is an open sketchbook proppedagainst a mountain. As if these images weren‘tpuzzling enough, what are we to make of thepainting that floats in mid air? How about theone in the sketchbook that continues the scenebehind it? Again, the title is a partial key tosuch mysteries. It hints at the possibility thatthe work is a picture album of events in theartist’s life—past, present, and to come.
Lesson 3 Puzzling Paintings 269/rhombus6Figure 14–7 This
artwork reflects the artist’s fondmemories of a grandmotherwho introduced her to paintingwhen she was young.
Lydia Rubio. Ella Pintaba Paisajes
(She Painted Landscapes). 1989.
Oil on canvas. 91.3 /H11003234 cm
(36/H1100392/H11033). Private Collection.
Extending an Image
Demonstrate technical skills. Look
through magazines for black-and-whitephotographs of landscapes or seascapes.With scissors, trim one such photograph tomeasure about 3 x 5 inches. Glue thisphotograph at or near the center of a 9 x12-inch sheet of white drawing paper. Usepencil to “continue” the image in the photo-graph onto the white paper. Juxtapose
unusual objects. Add details to the sceneas you draw.
PORTFOLIO 
What did you learn from extending
the photograph? What would you dodifferently?
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What does juxtapose mean?
2.Name two things that the paintings on
these pages have in common.
