REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING4.Choose a body feature to serve as the
windway. This is the tube or channel of 
a musical instrument through which air is blown to produce sound. A tail, leg,or mouth will make a good windway. 
5.With a fingernail file or coffee stirrer,
push a flat hole through the windway.The hole should extend all the way intothe body cavity, or sound chamber.
6.Push a plastic drinking straw into the
opening to create a vertical shaft. Thisshould run perpendicular, or at a rightangle, to the windway. Returning to theflat instrument, angle the vertical claywall opposite the windway.
7.Test the instrument at this stage by blow-
ing into the opening. You should hear a whistle-like sound. If no sound comesout, adjust the clay tip opposite the wind-way until you can make a sound.
8.Pierce the sound chamber with the straw
several times. This will create finger holes.You will want to place them where you
can reach them easily with your fingers.Use the clay modeling tools to add smalldetails and textures to the surface.
9.Allow your musical instrument to dry
completely. Then, with your teacher’shelp, bake, or fire, the instrument in akiln. This is a special hot oven in which
pottery objects are fired. After firing, apply
a glaze carefully. Make sure you do notcover the finger holes. Fire your object asecond time.
Lesson 6 Building a Clay Musical Instrument 195/rhombus6Figure 10–13 Student work. A musical instrument.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Is the subject of your clay
musical instrument recognizable?
●Analyze Did you use a variety of textures
to add visual interest to your instrument?
●Interpret Is your creature pleasing to
look at? Does the object produce sounds,and are these pleasing to the ear?
●Judge Is your work successful as an
example of applied art?Evaluating Y our Work
Critical Evaluation. Analyze the original art-
works of your peers. Examine the clay musical
instrument they built and form conclusions aboutformal properties. For example, how did they
use texture to create interest to their instrument?Does their pottery object function as a musicalinstrument?Visual Art Journal
In your journal, describe in detail a
variety of practical applications for de-
sign ideas. Apply these ideas as youplan your next art project.