BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 9. After
each number, write the term from the list thatmatches each description below.
caricature photography
frieze story boardgouache video documentarymosaic videographerpan
1.The art of making images by exposing a
chemically treated surface to light.
2.Af o r m  of watercolor that uses non-clear
pigments.
3.An in-depth study of a person, place,
thing, or event.
4.As l o w ,  s t eady, sideways movement of 
the video camera to capture details in apanorama.
5.Person who operates a video camera.
6.Pictures made with small cubes of
colored marble, glass, or tile set intocement.
7.Adecorative band running across the
upper part of a wall.
8.Aframe-by-frame plan of a video
production. 
9.Ahumorous drawing that exaggerates
features of a person to make fun of orcriticize him or her.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 10 to 14.
Answer each question in a complete sentence.
10.What are the four W’s of visual
reporting?
11.What personal risk was taken by the
photographer of Figure 11–2 to record the event from the best angle?
12.What reasons might the painter of Fig-
ure 11–6 have had for making GeorgeWash ington the tallest figure in the
painting?13.What event was recorded in the frieze 
in Figure 11–10?
14.When was the kinetoscope invented and
by whom?
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
15.Language Arts. Poets are also noted for
adding color and immediacy to eventsfrom history. At your school or locallibrary, find a copy of the ballad Paul
Revere’s Ride by Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow. Read this colorful poemaloud to appreciate its rhythm. Study the“visual record” of this historical event.
16.Science. The image in Figure 11–11 was
taken by a NASA space probe. Use onlineor library resources to learn more aboutNASA. Try to learn when NASA wasfounded, where it is headquartered, andwhat type of work it does. Write yourfindings in a report.
Chapter 11 Review 221
The J. Paul Getty Museum,
Los Angeles, California
In this chapter, you learned how artists of
different times and cultures have recordedevents.Y ou discovered how photography
developed as an art form. To explore furtherthe use of photography in recording events,go to art.glencoe.com
.Click on The Getty
Museum link and view the different imagesof historical events.
What do these images reveal? What are
the significant moments captured on film?Explain the “four W’s” for each photograph.