13. Working with Tempera
When using tempera, remember
the following:•Tempera paints run when
wet. To keep this fromhappening, make sure oneshape is dry before painting awet color next to it.
14. Working with 
Watercolors
•If you apply wet paint to
damp paper, you create linesand shapes with soft edges. 
•If you apply wet paint to dry
paper, you create lines andshapes with sharp, clearedges.
•If you dip a dry brush into
damp paint and then brushacross dry paper, you achievea fuzzy effect.
•School watercolors come in
semi-moist cakes. Before youuse them, place a drop ofwater on each cake to let thepaint soften. Watercolorpaints are transparent. Youcan see the white paperthrough the paint. If you wanta light value of a hue, dilutethe paint with a large amountof water. If you want a brighthue, you must dissolve morepigment by swirling yourbrush around in the cake of paint until you havedissolved a great deal ofpaint. The paint you apply tothe paper can be as bright asthe paint in the cake.PRINTMAKING TIPS
15. Making a Stamp Printing
Astamp print is an easy way to
make repetitive designs. Thefollowing are a few suggestionsfor making a stamp and print-ing with it. You may developsome other ideas after readingthese hints. Remember, printingreverses your design, so if you
use letters, be certain to cut orcarve them backwards.•Cut a simple design into the
flat surface of an eraser with aknife that has a fine, precisionblade.
•Cut a potato, carrot, or turnip
in half. Use a paring knife tocarve a design into the flatsurface of the vegetable.
•Glue yarn to a bottle cap or a
jar lid.
•Glue found objects to a piece
of corrugated cardboard.Make a design with paperclips, washers, nuts, leaves,feathers, or anything else youcan find. Whatever object youuse should have a fairly flatsurface. Make a handle for theblock with masking tape.
•Cut shapes out of a piece of
inner tube material. Glue theshapes to a piece of heavycardboard.
There are several ways to applyink or paint to a stamp:•Roll water-based printing ink
on the stamp with a softbrayer.
•Roll water-based printing ink
on a plate and press the stampinto the ink.
•Apply tempera paint or
school acrylic to the stampwith a bristle brush.SCULPTING TIPS
16. Working with Clay
To make your work with clay
go smoothly, always do the following:1.Dip one or two fingers in
water.
2.Spread the moisture from
your fingers over your palms. 
Never dip your hands in
water. Too much moisture turnsclay into mud.
17. Joining Clay 
If you are creating a piece ofsculpture that requires joiningpieces, do the following:1.Gather the materials you will
need. These include clay, slip,(a creamy mixture of clay andwater), a paint brush, a scor-ing tool, (perhaps a kitchenfork) and clay tools.
2.Rough up or scratch the 
two surfaces to be joined(Figure T–10).
Technique Tips 285
TECHNIQUE
TIPS
/H17073Figure T–10