266 Chapter 14 Creating FantasyThe world of fantasy art is filled with cu-
rious creatures. Study the painting in Figure
14–4. Without glancing at the title, you can
still sense the girl’s sheer terror. Have youever seen a bird like this? Perhaps the artistsaw it in a dream.
WHATYOUWILLLEARN
In this lesson you will have a chance to
use your imagination and create an image ofa bird. You will use this image, along with an
assortment of art media, to create a collage.Begin by discussing with classmates the var-ious features of birds. A class member will listthese features on the board. For each featurethe class will brainstorm descriptive words.These will be written next to the feature.Using this list as a starting point, make sev-eral pencil sketches of birds. Transfer the bestof these to drawing paper. You will use tissuepaper and other materials to give your birdcolor and texture.
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sketch paper
●White drawing paper, 12 x l8 inches 
●Scissors
●Sheets of colored tissue paper 
●White glue, water, brush
●Yarn
●Black markers or pen and black ink
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Working with classmates, discuss fea-
tures common to birds. These mightinclude wings, legs, claws, beak, andfeathers. One class member is to writethese features on the board. Space foradditional words is to be left alongsideeach feature.
2.Still working as a class, brainstorm words
to describe each feature. Let your imagi-nation run free. For eyes, for example, 
you might mention words such as large,
narrow, and yellow. The volunteer at the
board should list suggested words in thespace after each feature.
3.Working alone, use the lists on the board
to form a picture of a bird in your “mind’sCreating a Fantasy 
Bird Collage
LESSON 2LESSON 2
/rhombus6Figure 14–4 Describe the artist’s use of color and
shape in this painting. What type of feeling does this artworkcommunicate?
Rufino Tamayo. Girl Attacked by a Strange Bird. 1947. Oil on
canvas. 178 /H11003127.3 cm (70 /H11003501⁄8/H11033). The Museum of Modern
Art, New York, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Zadok.