to the illustration. When you are satisfied,
glue the words in place.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe What part of the story did you
choose for the cover picture? What imagesappear in this illustration? What kind of font did you choose?
●Analyze Does color of the lettering in
your title stand out vividly against colors of
the illustration? Is the author’s namesmaller than the title?
●Interpret Does the font you chose fit the
theme or message of your story? Is themessage clear?
●Judge Tell whether your book cover
would draw readers in and why.Evaluating Y our Work●Ruler, compass
●Scissors, white glue
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.In the school library, examine several
books. Notice the covers or book jackets.Pay attention to the cover illustration andto the font, or typeface.
2.Choose a book that you like. If you prefer,
you may make up a story and title.
3.Think of a picture that will attract readers
to your book. Decide how large your pic-ture will be. Make several sketches. Trans-fer your best sketch to a sheet of whitedrawing paper. Complete your illustrationusing markers, crayons, or tempera paints.
4.Think next about lettering styles for the
title. Look through books for fonts that fitin with your story. If the story is humor-ous, you might choose rounded letters.Afrightening story might call for tall,
pointed letters.
5.Imitating the font you have chosen,
carefully letter your title on coloredconstruction paper. Choose a color thatwill stand out against your illustration. Tocontrol the height, measure and cut a stripfrom the construction paper about 1-inchwide. Draw the title on this strip. Use aruler for the straight edges on letters such
as mor t.Make the round parts of pand
other letters by using a compass. Drawletters for the author’s name in a similarfashion. These should be smaller than thetitle. Cut a half-inch-wide strip of construc-tion paper to help guide you. With scissors,cut out the letters when you have finished.
6.Organize the design of your book cover.
Experiment placing the words in relation
/rhombus6Figure 12–17 Student work. A book cover.
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation. After your class displays
their artworks, analyze the original exhibition ofyour peers’ book cover designs. Form conclu-
sions about formal properties and historical andcultural contexts. For example, how did they usecolor? What is the book’s theme?Visual Art Journal
Compare different avocational
opportunities in art, such as visitingmuseums, taking art classes, creat-
ing art as a hobby. List those thatinterest you most.
Lesson 8 Creating a Book Cover 239