Apainting fitting this description is
shown in Figure 10–6 . This still life, however,
was completed in the twentieth century. Itsartist, moreover, was American. Examine thework. It is a detailed, lifelike painting of sev-eral ordinary objects. Notice their placement.Would you say they have been arranged hap-
hazardly or with care? Find the single hori-zontal line in the picture. What does this linerepresent?
An Eastern Still Life
Like the artworks you learned about in
Lesson 1, the two on these pages are sepa-rated by time and place. The still life in Fig-
ure 10–7 was completed more than a century
before the one in Figure 10–6. The artist whomade this second painting was from Japan.The work, in fact, gives us a sense of tradi-tional Japanese design. It also provides an insight into Japanese culture.Examine the contents of the painting.
These are summed up neatly in the title.What do the first of these items, the shells, re-veal about Japan’s geography? Look next atthe still life’s composition. How would youdescribe the arrangement of the objects? Howsimilar is this arrangement to the one in Fig-ure 10–6? As you study this work, it becomesclear that the artist’s goal was to create an elegant, balanced design. Do you think he has succeeded?
Lesson 3 Grouping Objects 189/rhombus6Figure 10–7 Notice the arrangement of the objects in
this still life.
Suzuki Kiitsu. Seashells and Plums. Japanese. Edo Period.
Nineteenth century. Color on silk. 34.6 /H1100329.2 cm (135⁄8/H11003111⁄2/H11033).
Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, California.Etsuko and Joe Price Collection.
Experimenting with 
Form and Value
Demonstrate your technical skills.
Look again at Figure 10–6.The artist hascreated a sense of three-dimensionalform mainly through value. By changing
little by little from dark to light values, hemakes the objects appear solid andround.
Experiment with this method yourself.
Arrange several objects, such as apples,eggs, and jars, on a tabletop. Step backand study this arrangement carefully.Then draw the composition with char-coal. Show gradual changes of value.
PORTFOLIO 
In a short paragraph, evaluate the
result of the shading technique youachieved with charcoal.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is a still life?
2.In what ways are the still lifes on these
pages similar? How are they different?
