made from side to side.
Count the number of squaresrunning up and down. 
2.Measure the width of the sur-
face to which the drawing isto be transferred. Divide thatfigure by the number of side-to-side squares. The resultingnumber will be the horizontalmeasure of each square. Youmay work in inches or cen-timeters. Using a ruler oryardstick, mark off thesquares. Draw in light rules. 
3.Measure the height of the
surface to which the drawingis to be transferred. Dividethat figure by the number ofup-and-down squares. Theresulting number will be the
vertical measure of eachsquare. Mark off the squares.Draw in pencil lines.
4.Starting at the upper left,
number each square on theoriginal drawing. Give thesame number to each squareon the large grid. Working a
square at a time, transferyour image. (See Figure T–2.)
6. Using Shading 
Techniques
When using shading techniques,
keep in mind the following:•L i nes or dots placed close
together create dark values.
•Lines or dots placed far apart,
on the other hand, create lightvalues. To show a changefrom light to dark, start withlines or dots far apart andlittle by little bring them closetogether.
•Use care also to follow the
shape of the object whenadding lines. Straight lines areused to shade an object with aflat surface. Rounded lines areused to shade an object with acurved surface. 7. Using Sighting 
Techniques
Sighting is a technique that 
will help you draw objects inproportion.1.Face the object you plan to
draw. Hold a pencil straightup and down at arm’s length.Your thumb should rest
against the side of the penciland be even with the tip.
2.Close one eye. With your
other eye, focus on the object.
3.Slide your thumb down the
pencil until the exposed partof the pencil matches theobject’s height. (See FigureT–3.)
4.Now, without moving your
thumb or bending you arm,turn the pencil sideways.
5.Focus on the width of the
object. If the height is greater,figure out how many“widths” will fit in one“height.” If the width isgreater, figure out how many“heights” will fit in one“width.”
282 Technique TipsTECHNIQUE
TIPS
/H17073Figure T–3
/H17073Figure T–2