called themselves Surrealists (suh- ree-uh-
lists). The name comes from a word whoseinitial part, sur-, means “beyond or above.”
The painting in Figure 14–3 was created by
a Surrealist. Examine this unusual work. Be-neath a sullen sky, collections of flat building-high objects (some wrapped in what looks likecanvas) stretch endlessly to the horizon. Scrapsof these same materials litter the ground, pro-viding a possible clue to the work’s title. Typ-ical of Surrealist art, this “landscape” is bathedin an unnatural light that casts shadows onsome of the towering structures. What is thesource of this light? The answer to that ques-tion, like the meaning of the odd shapes them-selves, remains a mystery.
had. In the dream and the painting, the figure
running in the foreground is the artist. That
he is being chased by someone is clear notonly from the title. It is equally evident fromthe scary shadows on the floor behind him.Who is chasing the artist? Why are they afterhim? Most baffling of all is the ghostlikeimage in parallel stride in the background.From whom is he running?
RECENT DREAM ART
During the first half of the twentieth cen-
tury, artists struck out in many bold new di-rections. Some turned to their conscience for
inspiration and subject matter. Others lookedto their emotions. Yet others probed the innerworkings of the mind. This group of artists who
explored the realm of dreams and the subconscious
Lesson 1 Dreams and Nightmares 265/rhombus6Figure 14–3 What properties are shared by this
painting and the one opposite? How has the artist of this worksuggested deep space?
Kay Sage. No Passing. 1954. Oil on canvas. 130.2 /H1100396.5 cm
(511⁄4/H1100338/H11033). Collection of Whitney Museum of American Art,
New York, New York. Purchase.
A Drawing in the Surrealist Style
Creative expression. Express a variety
of ideas based on personal experienceand imagination to come up with animage you might expect to find in a night-mare. On a sheet of lined paper, notedetails of this image. Using pencil, sketchyour image lightly on a sheet of drawing
paper. Imitate as much as possible thestyle of the painting on this page and inFigure 14–2. Use colored pencils,markers, or oil pastels to complete yourwork.Choose hues that help communi-
cate a sense of fear.
Describe your nightmarish image and
the Surrealist style you used to portray it.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is fantasy art? What are its roots?
2.Towhat did the Surrealists turn for inspiration?
PORTFOLIO