Lesson 6 Art & Reading 275
MAKE THE CONNECTIONMAKE THE CONNECTION
Take Another Look
1.Figure 14–12 is from the 1996 edition of
The Wizard of Oz. The artist, Lisbeth
Zwerger, chose pale, misty, dreamlikecolors for her illustrations. Do you think this was an appropriate choice? Why orwhy not?
2.In the 1900 edition of his book, author L.
Frank Baum stated this as his goal: “solely
to please children.” Do you think the artistapproached her work with the same goal in mind? 
3.The passage in Figure 14–13 awakens
several of the reader’s senses. Notice thatyou can hear as well as see what is hap-
pening. Would you agree that the artistachieves the same effects in her work? If so, how?
Art&Reading
Fantasy writing. People made of tin and
talking scarecrows are possible only in afantasy world. Reread the passage in Figure
14–13. Then write and illustrate your ownfantasy passage.Y ou may, if you like, choose
another scene from The Wizard of Oz.
Include at least one improbable creature.
Excerpt from 
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz
When [Dorothy] had finished her meal,
and was about to go back to the road of yel-low brick, she was startled to hear a deepgroan near by.
“What was that?” she asked timidly.“I cannot imagine,” replied the Scarecrow;
“but we can go and see.”
Just then another groan reached their ears,
and the sound seemed to come from behindthem. They turned and walked through theforest a few steps, when Dorothy discoveredsomething shining in a ray of sunshine thatfell between the trees. She ran to the placeand then stopped short, with a little cry ofsurprise.
One of the big trees had been partly
chopped through, and standing beside it,with an uplifted axe in his hands, was a manmade entirely of tin. His head and arms andlegs were jointed upon his body, but hestood perfectly motionless, as if he could notstir at all.
Dorothy looked at him in amazement,
and so did the Scarecrow, while Toto barkedsharply and made a snap at the tin legs,which hurt his teeth.
/rhombus6Figure 14–13 Excerpt from The Wonderful Wizard 
of Oz by L. Frank Baum.