AFRICAN AMERICAN PAINTINGS
Some celebrations of life do not come
from how we feel. They come instead from asense of pride in who we are. The abstract art-work in Figure 13–15 is such a “celebration.”
The work celebrates the artist’s African roots. 
As you explore this busy painting, your
eye never stays in one place for long. It is forever moving, much like the pulsing colorsand vibrating geometric shapes that make upthe work. Pause for a moment to focus on theyellow-and-black bull’s-eyes nested withinthe blue circle at the upper left. These objectsmay remind you of a face. If so, this is no ac-cident. Similar arrangements throughout thispainting are efforts to re-create, at least inspirit, the ritual masks of the artist’s Africanancestors. 
Lesson 7 Art that Celebrates Life 257/rhombus6Figure 13–15 Can you find objects in this painting that
exhibit radial balance? What other art principles are evidentin this work?
James Phillips. Ancestral Dream. 1991. Acrylic on paper. 120.7 /H11003
108 cm (471⁄2/H11003421⁄2/H11033). Private Collection.
Rie Muñoz
Cultural connection. Although Rie (short
for Marie) Muñoz was born and raised in
California, she is one of Alaska’s most well-known artists. She paints scenes ofeveryday life in an Alaskan village, including
such activities as fishing, hunting, andplaying winter sports. Her watercolorpaintings are filled with a sense of humorand whimsy (see Figure 13–14 ).
Muñoz is the daughter of Dutch parents
who immigrated to California. She studiedart at Washington and Lee University inVirginia and later at the University of Alaska-Juneau. In 1950, Muñoz took a steamship
up Alaska’s Inside Passage. She fell in lovewith the capital city of Juneau and decidedto make it her home. Ever since, Muñoz haslived and painted there. She has had manyjobs, including teacher, commercial artist,and museum curator, but eventually settledon full-time painter. Even now—in hereighties—Muñoz finishes between 50 and60 paintings every year. Identify in Figure13–14 any influences of Inuit culture.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What event is celebrated in the painting in
Figure 13–14?
2.What kinds of cultural images appear in
Figure 13–15?
