ordinarily to each other. Use the best of your
sketches as the basis of an oil pastel drawing.Add images clipped from magazines. Makeone image larger than all the others to em-phasize its importance.
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sketch paper
●Sheet of white drawing paper, 9 x 12 inches
●Oil pastels
●Old magazines
●Scissors
●White glue
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Think of a problem you feel strongly
about or have learned about. Make a listof images that might be connected withthe problem. Be creative.
2.On sketch paper, experiment with juxta-
posing images from your list that usuallyare not related but which, together, makea strong statement. Decide on one imagethat is central to your theme. Draw thisimage the largest.
3.Transfer your best sketch to a sheet of
white drawing paper. Complete yourdrawing using oil pastels. Choose colorsthat suit your theme.
4.Thumb through old magazines for addi-
tional images. Clip four or five pictures.Experiment placing these at variouspoints on the surface of your drawing. 
5.When you are happy with your
arrangement, glue the images in place. 
Lesson 4 Creating Your Own Picture Puzzle 271
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe List the images that appear in
your work.
●Analyze Did you emphasize one image by
making it larger than the others? Does yourpicture contain an interesting juxtaposition?
●Interpret What is the mood of your work?
What statement does the work make?
●Judge Are you pleased with your
picture? Were your classmates able toidentify the problem your work attacks? Evaluating Y our Work
/rhombus6Figure 14–9 Student work. Current-day problem.
When you have completed this class, your
portfolio will be evidence of all you have learnedabout art. Use it as a motivation to continuecommunicating your ideas and feelings throughnew artworks. As long as you continue to work,you will continue to grow as an artist.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEAS
For additional activities, check out
our Web site at art.glencoe.com .
There you will also find:
●Artist Profiles
●Career Corner
●Interactive Games
●Student Art Gallery