Intensity
Some colors appear lively and brilliant.
Others look murky or dull. The difference iscalled the color’s intensity. This is the bright-
ness or dullness of a hue. Astrong, bright hue is
said to be “high-intensity.” Pure green is sucha hue. A faint, dull hue is said to be “low-in-tensity.” Olive green is a hue that fits this de-scription. The intensity scale in Figure 1–11b
shows some intensities of green.
One way of lowering a hue’s intensity is
by mixing it with its complementary, or oppo-
site, hue on the color wheel. Look once againat the color wheel on page 8. Find the hues ateither end of the double-headed arrow. If youmix these hues, you get a neutral color suchas gray or brown. The same is true if you mixany other complementary hues.
COMBINING COLORS
You may have heard the term loud used
to describe outfits of clothing. The term alsorefers to a combination of colors that clash.
Art, like clothing, makes use of color combi-nations, or schemes. Different color schemes
give different effects. Some color schemes arequiet. Others are exciting. 
Some common color schemes used by
trained artists are monochromatic, analogous,and complementary.
Monochromatic 
Amonochromatic ( mah -noh-kroh- mat-ik)
color scheme uses different tints or shades of a single hue. Such a combination can help bring together the parts of a work.Monochromatic color schemes must be used
with caution, however, because they can pro-duce a dull, uninteresting effect. See an ex-ample of a monochromatic color scheme inFigure 1–11c.
Analogous 
An analogous (uh- nal-uh-gus) color
scheme uses hues that are side by side on thecolor wheel and share a hue. (See Figure
1–11d. ) Analogous color schemes relate ob-
jects in a work. Look at the color wheelshown in Figure 1–9 on page 8 and find the
colors analogous to yellow. What hues wouldbe included in an analogous color schemebased on red?
10 Chapter 1 The Elements of ArtHIGH INTENSITY LOW INTENSITY
/rhombus6Figure 1–11c Monochromatic color scheme./rhombus6Figure 1–11b Intensity scale. 