by their patriotic spirit and the steady boom
of the bass drums. What mood or feeling doesthis work bring to mind?
Art Celebrating Mexican
Independence
Compare the style and subject matter of
Figure 13–2 with those of Figure 13–3 . This
work celebrates Mexico’s Independence Day.Both artworks focus on a parade. Unlike Figure13–2, the marchers in Figure 13–3 are school-children. All are dressed in white, and eachchild carries a miniature Mexican tricolor (try-
kuhl-uhr). This is a flag with three broad bands of
color. In stark contrast to the children’s cos-
tumes is the black suit worn by the man lead-ing the procession. Note the serious expressionson the people’s faces. What do these suggestabout the tone or mood of the celebration? 
Lesson 1 Holiday Celebrations 245/rhombus6Figure 13–3 Compare
this Mexican celebration withthe American celebration inFigure 13–2. How are theydifferent?
Antonio M. Ruiz. School
Children on Parade. 1936. Oil on
canvas. 24 /H1100333.7 cm (91⁄2/H11003
131⁄4/H11033). The Metropolitan
Museum of Art. Secretaria deHacienda y Credito Publico,Mexico City, Mexico.
Making a Tricolor
Practical applications. Design a tricolor to
represent your class, school, or community.Choose colors with symbolic value. Usered, for example, for courage, blue forloyalty. Begin with a 9 x 12-inch sheet ofpaper. Divide it into three geometricshapes—squares, circles, rectangles, tri-angles, or a combination. Measure and cutfrom colored construction paper the threeshapes in the colors of your choice. Usingwhite glue, attach these so as to fill thesheet of drawing paper. Complete your flagby creating an official seal—a symbolic
image or emblem —on a sheet of white
paper. Color the seal with markers. Cut itout and glue it to the center of your tricolor.
PORTFOLIO 
Write a short paragraph describing
what your tricolor symbolizes and whateach color stands for. Put the paragraphin your portfolio along with the tricolor.Check Your 
Understanding
1.How does the artist of Figure 13–2 draw your
attention to the parade?
2.What difference in mood do you detect between
the paintings in Figures 13–2 and 13–3?
