petroglyph (peh-truh-glif), a symbolic rock
carving or painting. Objects of this kind were
created long ago by Native American artists.Such images have been found in 41 of the 50states and in Canada. Many petroglyphs arethought to date as far back as 8000 
B.C., about
10,000 years ago.
Examine the petroglyph in this picture.
Can you identify the creature shown? The fourpairs of legs should provide a clue to its iden-tity. It is a spider. Note that this is no ordinaryspider. Rather, it is the Spider Woman. This isa goddess-like figure common to the teachingsof the Hopi and Zuni peoples of the AmericanSouthwest. The petroglyph symbolizes thestory of creation. According to this tale, theSpider Woman formed all living creatures outof clay using her many slender fingers. A sec-ond figure, the Sun God Tawa, sent glowingrays to warm the creatures, thus breathing lifeinto them. How does this creation story com-pare with others you may have heard? Whatdoes it reveal about the role of nature in theHopi and Zuni system of beliefs?
Lesson 1 Picture Languages 225/rhombus6Figure 12–3 What type of balance has been used in
this image?
Native American. Petroglyph. Spider Woman. Nina River,
Wyomin g. Photo by Andrea Bush.
Designing a Cartouche
Creative expression. Produce a design
of your own personal cartouche. Begin bycutting a 4 x 9-inch rectangle from a largebrown paper bag or from a sheet ofbrown butcher paper. Using pencil, drawan oval that fills most of the surface area.Within the oval, sketch images thatcorrespond to letters in your name—acat for Catherine, a car for Carl.
Alternatively, sketch objects that symbol-ize your interests or hobbies. Go over alllines in fairly wide-tipped dark brown, red,and black markers. Allow a few minutesto make sure the markers have dried.Crumple the paper, then carefully smoothit out.The remaining creases will giveyour art an aged look.
PORTFOLIO 
In self-reflection, write what you
learned about symbolizing your namefor a cartouche.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What type of language was used by the
ancient Egyptians? 
2.What is a cartouche?
3.How were petroglyphs made?
