WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Photographs of sporting events
●Pencils and sketch paper
●White drawing paper, 12 x 18 inches
●Fine-tipped black felt marker
●Colored markers, charcoal, or colored
drawing pencils
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Study the photographs you have
gathered. Look for examples that showexciting action. Study the gestures andother body language of the athletes. Note the appearance and fixtures of thestadium or arena pictured.
2.Take turns posing with a fellow student.
Ask your model to assume a pose similarto one in the picture. On sketch paper, doseveral rapid gesture drawings of yourmodel. 
3.Transfer your best sketch to white 
drawing paper. Still using pencil, add foreground and background details.Foreground details should include auniform for your athlete and equipment.Background details should includecrowds of fans and features of the setting.Include as many diagonals as you can.
4.With a fine-tipped black marker, retrace
important contour lines. Use color tocomplete your drawing. Choose markers,charcoal, or colored drawing pencils.Consider bright colors that capture themood of the game.
Lesson 2 Drawing a Sporting Event in Action 207/rhombus6Figure 11–5 Student work. A sporting event.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe What sporting event does your
work show? What moment in the event
have you captured? What details of thesetting have you included?
●Analyze Have you included diagonal
lines? Have you used bright colors?
●Interpret Does you work communicate a
sense of vivid action and movement? 
●Judge Is your work successful? What
would you do next time to increase the
excitement of the sporting event?Evaluating Y our Work
To evaluate a project from your portfolio,
begin by asking yourself questions such as:●Does this artwork meet the assignment 
requirements?
●Does this artwork demonstrate how I have
grown as an artist?
●What improvements could I make?PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEAS
For additional activities, check out
our Web site at art.glencoe.com .
There you will also find:
●Artist Profiles
●Career Corner
●Museum Web Links
●Student Art Gallery