DRAWING TIPS
1. Making Gesture 
Drawings
Gesture drawing is a way of
showing movement in a sketch.Gesture drawings have no out-lines or details. You are notexpected to draw the figure.Instead, you are expected todraw the movement, or whatthe figure is doing. Follow theseguidelines:•Use the side of the drawing
tool. Do not hold the mediumas you would if you werewriting.
•Find the lines of movement
that show the direction inwhich the figure is bending.Draw the main line showingthis movement.
•Use quickly drawn lines to
build up the shape of theperson.
2. Making Contour 
Drawings
Contour drawing is a way of
capturing the feel of a subject.When doing a contour draw-ing, remember the followingpointers:•If you accidentally pick up
your pen or pencil, don’t stopworking. Place your pen orpencil back where youstopped. Begin again fromthat point.
•If you have trouble keeping
your eyes off the paper, ask afriend to hold a piece of paperbetween your eyes and yourdrawing paper. Another trickis to place your drawingpaper inside a large paper bagas you work.
•Tape your paper to the table,
so it will not slide around.With a finger of your free
hand, trace an outline of theobject. Record the movementwith your drawing hand.•Contour lines show ridges
and wrinkles in addition tooutlines. Adding these linesgives roundness to the object.
3. Drawing with Oil Pastels
Oil pastels are sticks of pigmentheld together with an oilybinder. The colors are brighterthan wax crayon colors. If youpress heavily, you will make abrilliant-colored line. If youpress lightly, you will create afuzzy line. You can fill in shapeswith the brilliant colors. You canblend a variety of color combi-nations. For example, you canfill a shape with a soft layer of ahue and then color over the huewith a heavy layer of white tocreate a unique tint of that hue. 
If you use oil pastels on col-
ored paper, you can put a layerof white under the layer of hueto block the color of the paper.
4. Drawing Thin Lines 
with a Brush
Drawing thin lines with a brush
can be learned with a little prac-tice. Just follow these steps:1.Dip your brush in the ink or
paint. Wipe the brush slowlyagainst the side, twirling it
between your fingers untilthe bristles form a point. 
2.Hold the brush at the begin-
ning of the metal band nearthe tip. Hold the brushstraight up and down.
3.Imagine that the brush is a
pencil with a very sharppoint. Pretend that pressingtoo hard will break the point.Now touch the paper lightlywith the tip of the brush anddraw a line. The line shouldbe quite thin.
To make a thinner line still,
lift up on the brush as youdraw. After a while, you willbe able to make lines in avariety of thicknesses.
5. Making a Grid for 
Enlarging
Sometimes the need arises to
make a bigger version of a smalldrawing. An example is whenyou create a mural based on asmall sketch. Follow these steps:1.Using a ruler, draw evenly
spaced lines across and upand down your originaldrawing (Figure T–1). Countthe number of squares you
Technique Tips 281
TECHNIQUE
TIPS
/H17073Figure T–1