Morocco’ s sunlight lured a French master of color .
atural light can affect people’s moods and the
way they look at the world around them. This
is especially true for artists. Natural light ofteninspires them to paint with certain colors and todepict objects, shapes, and shadows in specificways. For French artist Henri Matisse (1869–1954),it was the quality of the light that led him toMorocco, a nation in North Africa. Matissewanted a place where natural light would be constant day to day so that he could continue hisexperiments with color on canvas. Morocco wasperfect, he believed, because the sun shines thereas reliably as a lamp.
Matisse visited Morocco in the winters of 1912
and 1913. His paintings reflect the country’s lush,semitropical plants and trees, its fascinatingIslamic architecture, and the vividly patternedclothing worn by Moroccans. Remembering hisexperience in Morocco, Matisse said: “I felt thepassion for color develop in me.” Although henever returned to Morocco, the memories of thecountry’s natural light, colors, and images influenced his work for the rest of his career.
TIME TO CONNECTTIME TO CONNECT
Natural light greatly affected the colors in 
Henri Matisse’s paintings .
•Create a list of adjectives and adverbs describ-
ing how natural light and the artist’s choice ofcolors create a certain feeling or mood in you.Use a thesaurus to expand your list.
•Imagine you are on the terrace in the paintingOn the Terrace .Write a letter to a friend back
home using as many of your adjectives andadverbs as possible to evoke the feeling andmood of the scene and the effects of thenatural light on the colors you see. Henri Matisse. Basket of Oranges. 1912.
Matisse used color to create sharply defined
oranges that contrast against the looser,less-defined flower pattern on the tablecloth.
Henri Matisse. On the Terrace. 1912.
The colored pattern on the woman’s dress and
shoes as well as flat, two-dimensional-lookingspace are key elements of Islamic art thatMatisse adopted while in Morocco.
ALEXANDER BURKATOWSKI/CORBIS MUSEUM OF MODERN ART , NY
22 Chapter 1 The Elements of Art
