BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 10.
After each number, write the term from thelist that matches each description below.
color shape
elements of art spaceform still lifeline texturenegative space value
1.The path of a dot through space.
2.Apainting or drawing of nonmoving
objects.
3.The basic visual symbols an artist uses 
to create works of art.
4.An area clearly set off by one or more of
the other six visual elements of art.
5.The lightness or darkness of a hue.
6.The distance or area between, around,
above, below, and within things.
7.An element of art that refers to an object
with three dimensions.
8.Empty spaces between the shapes or
forms in two- and three-dimensional art. 
9.What the eye sees when light is reflected
off an object.
10.How things feel, or look as though they
might feel if touched.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 11 to 15.
Answer each question in a complete sentence.
11.What emotion or feeling is suggested by
horizontal lines? What feeling do diag-onal lines communicate to the viewer?
12.What is the relationship between primary
and secondary colors?
13.Under what circumstances might an
artist choose to use complementarycolors in a work?
14.In what ways are shape and form alike?
In what ways are they different?
15.Name and explain three techniques
artists use to achieve a feeling of space.CROSS-CURRICULUM 
CONNECTIONS
16.Language Arts. Imagine that you were
asked to design the cover for a bookabout a sports legend. What kind of colorscheme would you choose for the cover?What kind of lines would you use for theillustration? Write a descriptiveparagraph explaining your choices.
17.Music. Music, like art, suggests moods
and sensations. Listen to fast music and(in your mind) imagine lines, shapes, andcolors that look like the music sounds.Now listen to slow, serious music andimagine its lines, shapes, and colors.Which type of music sounded like sharpdiagonal lines and bright colors? Listsome of your favorite types of music anddescribe each one in visual forms.
Chapter 1 Review 23
The Minneapolis Institute of Arts,
Minneapolis, Minnesota
You don’t have to travel to Minnesota 
to sample multimedia offerings at TheMinneapolis Institute of Arts. Simply click onthe museum’s link at art.glencoe.com .Y ou
will explore the different elements artists useto create their works of art. After you’veexplored the elements described, look at the
artwork depicted throughout this chapter.
Study the different types of elements
shown. How many art elements can youidentify in each piece? Write a list of theseelements and describe how the artist appliedthem to express a feeling or communicate an idea.