CAREER
SPOTLIGHTSAdvertising Artist
Advertising artists design the artwork
that is used in advertisements. They usuallywork for an advertising agency. They mayalso work for a publication, such as a maga-zine or newspaper. Some advertising artistswork in the advertising department of a largecorporation, such as a store or restaurantchain.
Advertising artists work as part of a
design team. This team includes an art direc-tor, designers, and copywriters. First, the artdirector develops a concept, or idea, for anadvertisement. The copywriters write thewords that will appear in the ad. Then theartist creates a design that works with boththe art director’s concept and the words.Many advertising artists use computers whencreating their artwork.
Acareer as an advertising artist usually
requires a college education in art or design.
Courses in computer design techniques arevery valuable. Once they are hired, advertis-ing artists may also receive on-the-job training.Architect
An architect is an artist who designs
buildings and other structures. Your home,school, and local shopping mall were alldesigned by architects. An architect preparesplans that show both the interior and exteriorof a building. These sketches include floorplans that show the placement of rooms, hall-ways, doors, windows, closets, and other fea-tures. They also show the exterior walls onall sides of the building and a top-downdrawing of the roof.
Abuilding design must be not only visu-
ally pleasing but also functional and safe.When planning a building, architects mustconsider how the structure will be used. Forexample, the design for a home would be verydifferent from the design for a restaurant orhospital. Architects must also keep in mind theneeds of the people who will use the building.This includes such subjects as traffic patterns,living and work areas, and storage space. Theymust also know about heating and cooling,ventilation, and plumbing.
Architects need a college degree in archi-
tecture. They take courses in math, engineer-ing, and drafting. Because many architectsuse computers to produce their designs, theyalso take courses in computer-aided design.In addition, they must pass an exam tobecome licensed.
302 Career Spotlights
