20. Working with
Papier-Mâché
Papier-mâché ( pay-puhr muh-
shay ) is a French term meaning
“chewed paper.” It is also thename of several sculpting meth-ods using newspaper and liquidpaste. These methods can beused to model tiny pieces ofjewelry. They can also be usedto create life-size creatures.
In creating papier-mâché
sculptures, the paper-and-pastemixture is molded over a sup-port. You will learn more aboutsupports shortly. The moldednewspaper dries to a hard fin-ish. The following are threemethods for working withpapier-mâché:•Pulp Method . Shred
newspaper, paper towels, ortissue paper into tiny pieces.(Do not use glossy magazinepaper: it will not soften.) Soakyour paper in water over-night. Press the paper in akitchen strainer to remove asmuch moisture as possible.Mix the mashed paper withcommercially preparedpapier-mâché paste or whiteglue. The mixture shouldhave the consistency of softclay. Add a few drops of oil ofcloves to keep the mixturefrom spoiling. A spoonful oflinseed oil makes the mixturesmoother. (If needed, themixture can be stored at thispoint in a plastic bag in therefrigerator.) Use the mixture
to model small shapes. Whenyour creations dry, they canbe sanded. You will also beable to drill holes in them.
•Strip Method. Tear newspaper
into strips. Either dip the stripsin papier-mâché paste or rubpaste on them. Apply thestrips to your support (FigureT–16). If you do not want thestrips to stick to your support,first cover it with plastic wrap.
Use wide strips for largeshapes. Use thin strips forsmaller shapes. If you plan toremove your finished creation
from the support, apply five orsix layers. (Change directionswith each layer so you cankeep track of the number.)Otherwise, two or three layersshould be enough. Afterapplying the strips to yoursupport, rub your fingers overthe surface. 
As a last layer, use torn
paper towels. The brownpaper towels that are found inschools produce an uncompli-cated surface on which topaint. Make sure no roughedges are sticking up. Storeany unused paste mixture inthe refrigerator to keep it fromspoiling.
•Draping Method. Spread
papier-mâché paste on newspa-per. Lay a second sheet on topof the first. Smooth the layers.Add another layer of paste andanother sheet of paper. Repeatuntil you have four or five lay-ers of paper. Use this methodfor making drapery on a figure.(See Figure T–17.) If you allowthe layers to dry for a day ortwo, they will become leathery.They can then be cut and
molded as you like. Newspaperstrips dipped in paste can beused to seal cracks.
Like papier-mâché, support
for papier-mâché creations canbe made in several differentways. Dry newspaper may bewadded up and wrapped withstring or tape (Figure T–18).Wire coat hangers may be
padded with rags. For large fig-ures, a wooden frame coveredwith chicken wire makes a goodsupport.
Technique Tips 287
TECHNIQUE
TIPS
/H17073Figure T–18/H17073Figure T–16
/H17073Figure T–17