To create a base for your
papier-mâché creations, tapetogether arrangements of foundmaterials. Some materials youmight combine are boxes, tubes,and bowls. (See Figure T–19.)Clay can also be modeled as abase. If clay is used, be surethere are no undercuts thatwould keep the papier-mâchéfrom lifting off easily when dry.(For an explanation of under-cuts, see Technique Tip 18, onpage 286.)
Always allow time for your
papier-mâché creations to dry.The material needs extra dryingtime when thick layers are usedor when the weather is damp.An electric fan blowing air onthe material can shorten thedrying time.
21. Making a Paper 
Sculpture
Another name for paper sculp-
ture is origami. The processoriginated in Japan and means“folding paper.” Paper sculp-ture begins with a flat piece ofpaper. The paper is then curvedor bent to produce more than aflat surface. Here are some waysto experiment with paper.•Scoring. Place a square sheet
of heavy construction paper,12 by 12 inch, on a flat surface.Position a ruler on the paperso that it is close to the centerand parallel to the sides.Holding the ruler in place,run the point of a knife or a
pair of scissors along one ofthe ruler’s edges. Press downfirmly but take care not to cutthrough the paper. Gentlycrease the paper along the lineyou made. Hold your paperwith the crease facingupward.
•Pleating. Take a piece of
paper and fold it one inchfrom the edge. Then fold thepaper in the other direction.Continue folding back andforth.
•Curling. Hold one end of a
long strip of paper with thethumb and forefinger of onehand. At a point right belowwhere you are holding thestrip, grip it lightly betweenthe side of a pencil and thethumb of your other hand. Ina quick motion, run the pencilalong the strip. This will cause the strip to curl back onitself. Don’t apply too muchpressure, or the strip will tear.(See Figure T–20.)OTHER TIPS
22. Measuring Rectangles
Do you find it hard to create
perfectly formed rectangles?Here is a way of getting the jobdone:1.Make a light pencil dot near
the long edge of a sheet ofpaper. With a ruler, measurethe exact distance betweenthe dot and the edge. Makethree more dots the same dis-tance in from the edge. (SeeFigure T–21.)
2.Line a ruler up along the dots.
Make a light pencil line run-ning the length of the paper.
3.Turn the paper so that a short
side is facing you. Make fourpencil dots equally distantfrom the short edge. Connectthese with a light pencil rule.Stop when you reach the first line you drew. (See Figure T–22.)
4.Do the same for the remain-
ing two sides. Erase any linesthat may extend beyond thebox you have made.
5.Trace over the lines with your
ruler and pencil.
The box you have created willbe a perfectly formed rectangle. 
288 Technique TipsTECHNIQUE
TIPS
/H17073Figure T–19
/H17073Figure T–21
/H17073Figure T–20