CAREER
SPOTLIGHTS
Career Spotlights 307Museum Curator
Some people combine their love of art and
museums to become museum employees.There are a wide variety of museums acrossthe country. Some showcase artwork, such aspaintings, sculpture, or photographs. Othershouse objects of historical value, such asantique clothing or furniture. Still others dis-play items related to science or natural his-tory, such as dinosaur skeletons.
People who work in museums may have
several different types of jobs. A curatorchooses and obtains the objects that will bedisplayed in the museum. An assistant cura-tor helps the curator set up the museumexhibits. A conservator cares for and pre-serves the objects kept in the museum. A tourguide provides information about exhibits tothe museum’s visitors and answers theirquestions.
The degree of education required for a
museum worker varies depending on thetype of work. Most museum workers, how-ever, are highly educated. Many haveadvanced college degrees and are consideredexperts in their field.Photographer
Photographers are skilled artists who use
their cameras to create artwork. Their workvaries greatly depending on what type ofphotographs they take. For example, a cata-log photographer works in a studio and takespictures of objects such as food, clothing, orjewelry. A newspaper or magazine photog-rapher works in the field, taking pictures ofpeople and events in the news.
The work of photographers involves
more than just taking the pictures. Photogra-phers must first visualize the shot or set it upin an artistic way. After the pictures are taken,many photographers develop their own filmin a darkroom. Then they print the slides orphotographs.
Acareer as a photographer requires for-
mal training in photography. Many photog-raphers have a college degree in art.Photographers who specialize in certainareas, such as science, may need additionalcourses in that field. Beginning photogra-phers sometimes receive training on the jobby assisting a professional photographer.
