CAREER
SPOTLIGHTS
Career Spotlights 305Illustrator
The work of an illustrator revolves
around drawing. Illustrators may createmany different types of artwork. Most spe-cialize in one field, such as technical illustra-tion. Illustrators often work in the publishingand advertising industries.
Atechnical illustrator specializes in draw-
ing diagrams. These might be included ininstructional manuals. They help explainhow to use appliances or equipment, such asa computer or VCR. A fashion illustratordraws sketches of clothing and accessories.Fashion illustrations might appear in cata-logs, advertisements, or magazines. A med-ical illustrator prepares detailed drawings ofthe human body. These drawings are oftenfound in medical textbooks and journals.
Most illustrators have a college degree in
art. Besides drawing, they learn about design,composition, and perspective. Illustratorswho want to concentrate on one area mustalso take courses related to that subject. Forexample, a medical illustrator must studybiology and medicine.Industrial Designer
Have you ever wondered who designed
your favorite toys and electronic games? Thoseare the work of industrial designers. Theydesign manufactured products, such as com-puters, kitchen appliances, and cars. Industrialdesigners usually work for large companies,such as toy or equipment manufacturers.
Industrial designers develop new prod-
ucts. They also make improvements to exist-ing products, such as adding new features orchanging the design of an automobile. When developing a product, industrialdesigners first do research. The designersneed to know who will use the product andhow they will use it. Industrial designers alsomust evaluate similar products that arealready available. Then they combine thisknowledge with their artistic ability. Theirgoal is to create products that will work welland be popular with consumers.
Acareer in industrial design requires a
college education. In addition to art courses,industrial designers study computer-aideddesign. Many designers use computer tech-nology when developing products.
