20 Chapter 1 The Elements of ArtHis beard was rough as sandpaper. The lake
was smooth as glass. You have probably readand maybe even written descriptions likethese. The descriptions are effective becausethey bring to mind the sense of touch. Theyremind us of familiar textures. As an art ele-
ment, texture is how things feel, or look as
though they might feel if touched.
Like space, texture in art can be tactile, tex-
ture that can be touched, or visual. In this les-
son, you will learn about the double role oftexture as an element. 
TEXTURE
Imagine the smoothness of mashed pota-
toes, the brittleness of a wheat cracker. Oursense of touch is always alert to the thingsaround us. It helps us identify them andenjoy their feel. It also helps us avoid un-pleasant touch sensations. Such an unpleas-ant sensation is suggested by the sentencethat opens this lesson.
Artists take advantage of our experience
with textures to enrich their works. How anartist uses texture depends on whether he orshe is working in two or three dimensions.Tactile Texture
Sculptors, you may recall, work in real
space. They also work in real texture. Referback to the sculpture in Figure 1–16 on page16. How do you think this work would feelto the touch? Contrast that sensation to theone you might get touching the work in Fig-
ure 1–20. This sculpture of a horse is life-size.
It is made of mud and tree branches. Whatwords would you use to describe its texture?What do you think it would be like to ridethis horse?
Sometimes artists use texture to capture
visual designs in three dimensions. The sculp-ture in Figure 1–21 is such a work. Have you
ever touched a raised design in fabric? Do youthink the “clothing” worn by this guardianwould feel smooth or rough to the touch?
Visual Texture
Artists are aware that we experience tex-
ture not only through our sense of touch, butalso through our sense of vision. Look backat the painting in Figure 1–18 on page 18. Theglassware has been painted in a very lifelikefashion. Each facet, or cut design in the glass,
LESSON 7
TextureLESSON 7
/rhombus6Figure 1–20 Analyze
the use of form and texture tocreate this sculpture.
Deborah Butterfield. Horse.
1977. Mud and sticks. Life-size.Zolla/Lieberman Gallery,Chicago, Illinois.
