Position your artwork between
the backing and the mat andattach it with tape. Anchor theframe to the cardboard with afew pieces of rolled tape.
24. Mounting a Two-
Dimensional Work
Mounting pictures that you
make gives them a professionallook. To mount a work, do thefollowing:1. Gather the materials you will
need. These include a yard-stick, a pencil, poster board, asheet of heavy cardboard, aknife with a very sharp blade,a sheet of newspaper, andrubber cement.
2.Measure the height and
width of the work to bemounted. Decide how large aborder you want around thework. Plan your mount sizeusing the work’s measure-ments. To end up with a3-inch border, for example,make your mount 6 incheswider and higher than yourwork. Record the measure-ments for your mount.
3.Using your yardstick and
pencil, lightly draw yourmount rectangle on the backof the poster board. Measurefrom the edges of the posterboard. If you have a largepaper cutter available, youmay use it to cut your mount.
4.Place the sheet of heavy card-
board on your work surface.Place the poster board, pencilmarks up, over the card-board. Holding the yardstickfirmly in place along one line,score the line with your knife.Do not try to cut through theboard with one stroke. By thethird try, you should be ableto cut through the board.5.Place the artwork on the
mount. Using the yardstick,center the work. Mark eachcorner with a dot. (SeeFigure T–26.)
6.Place the artwork, face down,
on a sheet of newspaper. Coatthe back of the work withrubber cement. ( Safety Note:
Always use rubber cement ina room with plenty of ventila-tion.) If your mount is to be
permanent, skip to Step 8.
7.Line up the corners of your
work with the dots on themounting board. Smooth the work into place. Skip to
Step 9.
8.After coating the back of 
your artwork, coat the posterboard with rubber cement. Becareful not to add cement tothe border area. Have a part-ner hold your artwork in theair by the two top corners.Once the two glued surfacesmeet, you will not be able tochange the position of thework. Grasp the lower twocorners. Carefully lower thework to the mounting board.Line up the two corners withthe bottom dots. Little by little, lower the work intoplace (Figure T–27). Press itsmooth.9.To remove any excess
cement, create a small ball ofnearly dry rubber cement.Use the ball of rubber cementto pick up excess cement.
25. Making Rubbings
Rubbings make interesting tex-tures and designs. They mayalso be used with other mediato create mixed-media art. Tomake a rubbing, place a sheet ofthin paper on top of the surfaceto be rubbed. Hold the paper inplace with one hand. With theother hand, rub the paper withthe flat side of an unwrappedcrayon. Always rub away fromthe hand holding the paper.Never rub back and forth, sincethis may cause the paper to slip.
26. Scoring Paper
The secret to creating neat,sharp folds in cardboard orpaper is a technique called scor-ing. Here is how it is done:1.Line up a ruler along the line
you want to fold.
2.Lightly run a sharp knife or
scissors along the fold line.Press down firmly enough toleave a light crease. Take carenot to cut all the way throughthe paper. (Figure T–28).
290 Technique TipsTECHNIQUE
TIPS
/H17073Figure T–27/H17073Figure T–26