REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation. Analyze the original art-
works of your peers. Examine the mask they
created and form conclusions about formalproperties—the elements and principles of art.For example, how did they use geometric
shapes to create balance?WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Fold the paper. Cut several symmetrical
shapes for a mask. Choose one. 
2.Use your imagination to design a mask
with formal balance. Choose geometricshapes for facial features and otherdetails. Add pattern or texture to addinterest.
3.On a clay mat or newspaper, roll out the
clay so that it is about 
1/4of an inch thick
and large enough for the drawing. Laythe paper sketch on top of the clay.Lightly trace features and details. Use afettling knife or open paper clip to cut outthe mask shape and small openings, ifdesired. Be careful, too many openingswill weaken the clay mask.
4.Build out some features with clay coils
and cut-out shapes. Score, slip, andsmooth edges to attach.
5.Apply rows of pattern and texture using
found objects such as pens, paper clips,cardboard strips, toothbrushes, combs,and so on.
6.When finished, crumple up paper towels
or newspaper. Shape the clay over thepillow to softly round the mask shape.Air dry. Bisque fire. Follow directions forclay body.
7.Apply tempera or acrylic paints. Choose
a color scheme that emphasizes the moodor idea of the mask and maintains formalbalance. Seal water-based paints withmedium or spray varnish.
Lesson 2 Making a Mask with Formal Balance 29/rhombus6Figure 2–5 Student work.
For additional activities, check out
our Web site at art.glencoe.com .
There you will also find:
●Artist Profiles
●Interactive Games
●Museum Web Links
●Student Art Gallery
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Identify the shapes used in
your mask. What tools were used to apply
texture? Explain the color scheme.
●Analyze How have you produced formal
balance in the mask? What mood or ideadoes it express? Is this different from youroriginal idea?Evaluating Y our Work