34 Chapter 2 The Principles of ArtMaking a Tessellation
Patterns, as you know, are made up of re-
peating shapes or forms. In some patterns,the same shape or form repeats over andover. In others, it varies. 
The interesting artwork shown in Figure
2–10 contains an example of a type of pattern
called tessellation. This is a pattern of shapes
that fit together in a way that leaves no spacein between. The term comes from the Latinword tessella, meaning “tile.” Perhaps you
have seen floors surfaced with tiles. Lookclosely at Figure 2–10. On the right side of thework, white birds fly over a small town sur-rounded by farmlands and a river. On the left
side, black birds fly over a mirror image of thesame scene. Together, the two flocks form atessellation. The white birds serve as back-ground for the black birds, and the black birdsbecome a background for the white birds. 
WHATYOUWILLLEARN
You will design a motif to be used in a tes-
sellation. You will repeat the motif to fill an en-tire page. Using your imagination, you willadd details to your motif. These details willchange the shape into a fantasy creature. Youwill complete your design by using colored
markers.
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Scissors 
●Squares of 3-inch oak tag
●Transparent tape, ruler
●Sketch paper
●Pencil
●Drawing or construction paper, 
12 x 18 inches
●Colored markers
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Cut a shape from one side of an oak tag
square. Carefully tape the shape to theopposite side of the square in the sameposition (see Figure 2–11 ).
2.Cut a shape from a third side. Tape it to its
opposite side. You will have a shape thatlooks something like a jigsaw puzzle piece.This is called a template. Turn the shapeyou have created. Examine it from differentsides and angles. Picture fantasy creaturesthat might be formed by adding details.Draw around the template on sketch paper,
/rhombus6Figure 2–10 Describe
the pattern in this woodcut.How did the artist createrhythm?
M. C. Escher. Day and Night.
1938. Woodcut in black andgray printed from two blocks.39.1 /H1100367.7 cm (15
2⁄5/H11003262⁄3/H11033). 
© 1996 Cordon Art, Baarn,Holland. All rights reserved.
LESSON 5LESSON 5