the principle of art that leads the viewer to sense
action in a work, or it can be the path the viewer’seye follows through the work.
THEPRINCIPLE OF RHYTHM
Rhythm is the principle of art that indicates
movement through the repetition of elements andobjects. In Figure 2–8, the repetition of white
curved lines on the blue wave sweep youreyes up to the top of the wave. The foam,which is represented by curved free-formshapes, seems to be in motion. The manysmall, repeated, free-form shapes that are re-peated on the edges of the foam seem to beescaping from the larger mass of white.
THEPRINCIPLE OF PATTERN
Pattern is a two-dimensional, decorative vi-
sual repetition. The unit of repetition in a visual
pattern is called a motif (moh- teef). The quiltin Figure 2–9 is decorated with a pattern that
has two motifs. Both motifs have the sameshape, a square on its point, but one is a solidblue color and the second has several colors.Sometimes a motif can be made up of a com-plex combination of shapes and colors, suchas the curved black lines and dark-orangeflowers on the dress of the woman in Figure8–2 on page 144.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is movement in art?
2.Define rhythm in art.
3.How do artists create movement and
rhythm?
/rhombus6Figure 2–9 There are two major motifs in this design.
One is a solid blue square set on its point. The alternatingmotif is bordered with a light blue band and divided in thecenter into four smaller squares.
Annie M. Peachey Swarey. Four in Block Work Quilt. Yellow
Topper Amish, Byler Group Mifflin County, Pennsylvania.
1925–35. Cotton, rayon, and synthetics. 216 /H11003184 cm (85 /H11003
721/2/H11033). Collection of the Museum of American Folk Art, New
York, New York. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. William B. Wigton.
1984.25.10. Photo by Schecter Lee.
Japan’s Edo Period (1603-1868)
Historical connection. The Edo period, was
a time of peace, isolation, and economicgrowth. During the 1700s, Edo (now Tokyo)
grew into one of the world’s largest cities,
where entertainment and the arts thrived.Merchants and samurai were entertained bykabuki, a type of Japanese theatre.
The entertainment districts in Edo were
called ukiyo , which means “the floating
world.” Kabuki actors and other performers
became the subjects of a new Japanese artstyle known as ukiyo-e , or “pictures of the
floating world.” Ukiyo-e became one of themost notable artistic styles of the Edo period.
Katsushika Hokusai—considered one of
the greatest ukiyo-e masters—createdwoodblock prints in this style. Hokusai also
created many landscape and seascapeprints, including the one shown in Figure
2–8.Can you identify any cultural influences
in this painting?
Lesson 4 Movement, Rhythm, and Pattern 33