30 Chapter 2 The Principles of Art“Variety is the spice of life.” This saying
means that a break from humdrum routinesmakes life more interesting.
This saying also applies to art. In this les-
son, you will learn how variety and threeother principles—harmony, emphasis, and
proportion—add interest to artworks.
THEPRINCIPLE OF VARIETY
In art, variety is combining one or more ele-
ments of art to create interest. Asplash of bril-
liant color will add zest to a painting that hasmostly dull tones. A free-form shape addspep to a work done with mostly geometricshapes. Study the unusual painting in Figure
2–6. What has the artist done to add variety?
THEPRINCIPLE OF HARMONY
Just as you can have too little of a good
thing, you can also have too much. In art, anexcess of variety can be offset by using theprinciple of harmony. Harmony means 
combining the elements of art to accent their sim-ilarities. Look again at the painting in Figure
2–6. This time, study its picture plane. This
is the flat surface of a painting or drawing. Find
the horizontal line that divides the upper andlower halves of the picture plane. It runsthrough the center of the comb. Do you recallfrom Chapter 1, Lesson 2, the effect horizon-tal lines have on the viewer? What other lineshas the artist used to bring harmony to thisactive painting? 
THEPRINCIPLE OF EMPHASIS
To attract a viewer’s attention to an im-
portant part of a work, artists use emphasis.Emphasis is making an element or an object in
a work stand out. One way artists create em-
phasis is through contrast. Examine thesculpture in Figure 2–7. Notice how the artist
uses contrasting bold colors to draw theviewer’s eye into and around the dancing 
LESSON 3
Variety, Harmony, Emphasis,
and ProportionLESSON 3
/rhombus6Figure 2–6 How did the artist create variety and
harmony in this painting?
James Rosenquist. Early in the Morning. 1963. Oil on canvas.
241.3 /H11003142.2 cm (95 /H1100356/H11033). Virginia Museum of Fine Arts,
Richmond, Virginia. Gift of Sydney and Frances Lewis.
