42 Chapter 3 Art Media and TechniquesTo mo st people, a pencil is a writing tool.
To artists, it is a key. As an art medium, this
familiar object opens the door to endless cre-ative possibilities. An art medium is a material
used to create a work of art. When we speak of
more than one medium, we use the wordmedia. Artists rely on a wide variety of media
in their work, such as pencils, paints, char-coal, and pastels.
In this lesson, you will learn about media
used in drawing. In later lessons, you willlearn about media used to create other kindsof art. WHYARTISTS DRAW
In baseball, a pitcher takes warm-up
throws before facing a batter. Musicianswarm up before a performance. Artists fol-low a similar approach by drawing. Drawing“limbers” up the artist’s eye. It helps developvisual perception (pur- sep-shun). This is an
awareness of the elements of an environment bymeans of the senses. Perception is more than
looking at an object. It is really “seeing” theobject. It is studying how lines, shapes, forms,and colors blend to form the whole.
Some drawings are used to plan paintings
or other large projects. Figure 3–2 shows this
type of drawing, or “study.” Other drawingsare done as finished works of art. Such adrawing appears in Figure 3–3.
DRAWING MEDIA
Do you recall scribbling with a crayon
when you were small? You didn’t realize it atthe time, but you were using a drawingmedium. Crayons, colored markers, pencils,pens, and chalk are all drawing media. 
Each drawing medium has its own char-
acteristics. Chalk and crayon, for example,produce rough lines. Pens, by contrast, makesmooth lines. Figure 3–4 shows lines made
with three different drawing media. Noticethe line quality of each.
SHADING TECHNIQUES
Look once more at the drawing in Figure
3–3. The scarf in this picture looks so real youcan almost feel the texture in the fabric. Theartist accomplishes this through shading.Shading is the use of light and shadow to give
a feeling of depth and texture. There are fourmain shading techniques. (See Figure 3–5. )
●Hatching. This is drawing thin lines all
running in the same direction. 
LESSON 1
DrawingLESSON 1
/rhombus6Figure 3–2 What drawing medium was used for this
sketch? How would you describe the characteristics of this art tool?
Gustav Klimt. Sleeping Boy. 1905–07. Graphite pencil on cream
wove paper. 55.2 /H1100334.9 cm (213⁄4/H11003133⁄4/H11033). Detroit Institute of
Arts, Detroit, Michigan. Founders Society Purchase, John S.Newberry Fund.
