WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Assorted drawing media, such as sticks
of charcoal, soft graphite, unwrappedcrayons, and markers
●Sheets of white paper, 12 x 18 inches
●Sharpened pencil
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.You will demonstrate technical skills
effectively using a variety of art media toproduce a gesture drawing. You and yourclassmates will take turns modeling.Models should pretend to be frozen inthe middle of an activity. This may be aneveryday action, such as jogging, lifting,or dancing. 
2.Make at least four gesture drawings. Use a
different medium for each drawing. Makeyour figures at least eight or ten inches tall.Begin by drawing the head. Sketch loose,free lines. Draw quickly to capture theoverall form of the subject. Build up the
shape of the figure little by little.
3.Switching to the pencil, make a slower
gesture drawing of a seated model. Fillan entire sheet of paper. Select one area of the figure to emphasize as the artisthas done in Figure 3–6. Emphasize thisarea with details and shading.
4.Display your finished gesture drawings
along with those of your classmates.Compare the different styles used tocapture the form and actions of thesubjects.
Lesson 2 Gesture Drawing 45
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Did you include all the body
parts in each of your rapid gesturedrawings? Identify the medium used foreach drawing.
●Analyze Point to and describe the
different kinds of lines in your gesturedrawings. Is the area you chose toemphasize clearly identified with shading?Evaluating Y our Work
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation. Analyze the original art-
works of your peers. Examine their gesture
drawing and form conclusions about formalproperties. For example, what kinds of lines did they use? Were they able to catch a feelingof motion?Visual Art Journal
Look through fitness and sports
magazines. Notice the different ac-tion poses, such as a person moun-tain biking, jogging, or demonstratingsome exercise positions. Selectthree different poses and use theseas your models. Draw these actionposes in your journal./rhombus6Figure 3–7 Student
work. Gesture drawings.