BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 12.
After each number, write the term from thelist that matches each description below.
balance picture plane
emphasis principles of artharmony proportionmotif rhythmmovement unitypattern variety
1.How parts of a work relate to each other
and to the whole.
2.Combining one or more elements of art 
to create interest.
3.The arrangement of elements and princi-
ples of art to create a feeling of complete-ness or wholeness.
4.The principle of art that leads the viewer
to sense action in a work, or it can be thepath the viewer’s eye follows through the work.
5.Making an element or an object in a 
work stand out.
6.Aprinciple of art concerned with
arranging the elements so that no onepart of the work overpowers, or seemsheavier than, any other part.
7.Guidelines that govern the way artists
organize the elements of art.
8.The principle of art that indicates
movement through the repetition ofelements and objects. 
9.The flat surface of a painting or drawing.
10.Combining the elements of art to accent
their similarities.
11.Two- dimensional, decorative visual
repetition.
12.The unit of repetition in a visual pattern.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 13 to 17.
Answer each question in a complete sentence.13.What kind of balance does a hubcap
have?
14.What happens when there is too much
harmony in a work of art? What can bedone to correct this problem?
15.What are some ways of achieving pro-
portion in an artwork?
16.What principle might be used to organize
a work of art that contains a motif?
17.What is a tessellation? 
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
18.Language Arts. Emphasis occurs in
literature as well as in art. In stories,words are italicized to show they receive
stress or emphasis. With a group ofclassmates, write a short story in whichwords are emphasized. Read your storyin front of the class. Challenge classmatesto identify examples of emphasis.
19.Mathematics. The principles of art,
such as balance and proportion, arebased on math skills. What math skills doyou think you need to work with balanceand proportion? Explain.
Chapter 2 Review 39
Indianapolis Museum of Art,
Indianapolis, Indiana 
What do geometry and art have to do 
with each other? Visit the IndianapolisMuseum of Art by clicking on its link atart.glencoe.com , and explore how
geometry is used as a creative tool in thework of many artists. Discover how artists
have used geometry to create theirartworks.
Write a description of the ways in which
geometry is applied to the works of art.