WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sketch paper
●Sheet of white paper, 9 x 12 inches
●Black colored marker
●Oil pastels
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Have your model sit facing you head-on.
This means that you are looking squarelyat the person’s face. Ask the model toexpress a mood with his or her facialexpression. Make several quick gesturedrawings of the person’s face. Add eyes,nose, mouth, ears, and hair. Your goal isnot to create an exact likeness. Rather, it isto capture the shape of the person’s headand facial features. You are also tocapture a mood or feeling as seen in yourmodel’s expression. 
2.Transfer your best sketch to the sheet of
paper. 
3.Using the black marker, go over the out-
line of the head and facial features. Workquickly, as you did in the gesture draw-ings. The lines should have a sketchyquality, as in Figure 3–9 on page 47.
4.Decide which areas of your portrait you
will shade. Decide which you willhighlight. Use a dark value of a singlecolor of pastel for the shaded areas. Use alight value of the same color for high-lighted areas.
5.Display your completed work along with
those of classmates. Challenge studentsto identify the mood or feeling your por-trait expresses. 
Lesson 4 Creating a Portrait 49
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Identify the type of artwork you
created. Did you include all of the facialfeatures? Were these in the proper places
on your portrait?
●Analyze What value did you use to
shade areas of the portrait? What value did you use to highlight areas?Evaluating Y our Work
/rhombus6Figure 3–11 Student work. A portrait.
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Do a second portrait based on the same
sketch. This time, substitute watercolors for theoil pastels. Moisten cakes of watercolor with afew drops of water. This will soften them. Use a
fairly large brush to apply the paint. Compare
the results of your two portraits.Visual Art Journal
In your journal, list the rewards of
creating art as a hobby. Comparevarious avocational—not related to
a job or career—opportunities in art.Describe how these opportunitiescan add interest to your life.