how many prints are in the edition. The num-
ber 4/50 means “the fourth print in an editionof fifty.” How would you read 13/25?
PRINTMAKING TECHNIQUES
Imagine touching your finger to a stamp
pad and then pressing your finger on paper.In doing so, you would make a relief (ruh-
leef) print. This is an image raised from a
background that is inked and printed. Theraised ridges on your finger would pick upthe ink and then transfer your “fingerprint”to the paper. Relief printing is one of the old-est forms of printmaking. It dates back nearly2,000 years.
Apopular medium used in relief printing
is wood. The artist cuts away the areas of thesurface not meant to hold ink. Figure 3–12
shows a woodblock print, or woodcut.
Figure 3–13 shows the result of another
printing process. This process is known as intaglio (in-tahl -yoh). It is a printmaking 
technique in which the image to be printed is cutor scratched into a surface. In a way, intaglio is
the reverse of relief printing. The image onthe plate is transferred when paper is forcedinto grooves that hold the ink. Study the in-taglio print in Figure 3–13. Notice the manyfine lines.
Lesson 5 Printmaking 51
/rhombus6Figure 3–13 How does this intaglio print differ from
the woodcut in Figure 3–12?
Francisco de Goya. Capricho n. 43: The Sleep of Reason Produces
Monsters. 1796–98, published 1799. Etching and aquatint.
21.6 /H1100315.2 cm (81⁄2/H110036/H11033). Courtesy of The Hispanic Society of
America, New York, New York.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.Define the term printmaking .
2.What are the three tools in printmaking?
3.Name two printmaking techniques.
Making a Relief Block Print
Demonstrate technical skills. You can
make your own relief printing plate usinga variety of found materials. Begin bycutting a 4-inch square from a sheet ofcardboard. Cut a variety of smaller geo-metric shapes from the same sheet.Arrange these on the surface of thesquare. Form an interesting design.
Glue the shapes in place. Let them dry
overnight. Apply printing ink to the sur-
face with a brayer. Lay a sheet of paper
over your inked plate. Apply pressure
evenly. Carefully peel back the print.
PORTFOLIO 
Write an evaluation of what you
learned, and put it in your portfolio withyour print.