●Binder. Ab i n d e r is a liquid that holds
together the grains of pigment. The binder
allows the pigment to stick to the surface.The liquid parts of eggs have long beenused as a paint binder.
●Solvent. Ap a i n t er may also choose to 
use a solvent when working with paints.
This is a liquid used to control the thickness
or thinness of the paint. Solvents are also
used to clean paintbrushes and otherapplicators.
PAINTING MEDIA
As with drawing media, there are many
different kinds of paint. Each has its own per-sonality. Some paints that artists use are oil-based. Others are made with plain water.
Oil-Based Paint
First used in the 1400s, oil paint remains
a popular medium today. True to its name,oil paint uses linseed oil as its binder. Its sol-vent is turpentine.One advantage of oil paint is that it dries
slowly. This allows the artist to blend colorsright on the canvas. The work in Figure 3–8
is an oil painting. Notice how smoothly thecolors blend together.
Water-Based Paint
The most popular of water-based paint-
ing media, watercolor, takes its name from itssolvent, water. The binder is gum arabic.Watercolors give a transparent quality to
paintings. Compare the watercolor in Figure
3–9with the oil painting in Figure 3–8. What
differences do you see?
Tempera, another water-based paint,
comes in both powder and liquid form. Be-cause tempera is not oil-based, it dries morequickly than oil paint. It is also more opaquethan watercolor. 
Lesson 3 Painting 47/rhombus6Figure 3–9 When watercolors are applied to wet paper,
the colors flow and blend. 
Emil Nolde. Self-Portrait. 1917. Watercolor, reed pen, and black
ink. 21.6 /H1100316.5 cm (81⁄2/H1100361⁄2/H11033). Detroit Institute of Arts,
Detroit, Michigan. Bequest of John S. Newberry.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What are the three main ingredients of paint?
2.What is the main difference between oil
paint and tempera?
Experimenting with Watercolor
Practical applications. Using a primary
hue of watercolor, draw several shapeson a dry sheet of watercolor paper. Re-peat the process, this time using paperthat has been brushed thoroughly onboth sides with water. Share and com-pare your results with those ofclassmates.
PORTFOLIO 
Note the properties of watercolor on a
piece of paper. Put this in your portfoliowith your painting.