Other tools used by digital artists include
the following:
●Stylus and graphics tablet. In simplest
terms, a stylus and graphics tablet areelectronic answers to the pencil andpaper. In recent years, these tools havebeen improved. The stylus responds topressure from the hand, much like a realpencil, pen, or brush and includes aneraser.  The woman in Figure 3–18 onpage 56 is shown using a stylus andgraphics tablet.
●Scanner. Ascanner is a device that
“reads” printed images and text. It is then translated into a language thecomputer— and the digital artist—canuse. The work in Figure 3–19 on page 57began with a photograph that the artistscanned into his computer.
●Digital camera. Digital cameras are
similar to traditional cameras, but imagesare saved onto a media card rather thanfilm. Captured images are then importedinto art programs where they can bemanipulated in many ways.
On-Screen Tools
Asecond category of tools digital artists
work with is “on-screen” tools or desktoptools that mimic hand-held tools used by con-ventional artists. Desktop tools found in thetoolbox include pencils, pens, assortedbrushes, and even erasers. Desktop tools varyfrom program to program. The table in Fig-
ure 3–21 shows a few common tools and the
type of program in which each is found. Italso shows the icon, or picture symbol, com-monly used to indicate each.
Each program or application saves the im-
ages and text in a language or script knownas a file format. Programs usually offer sev-eral file format choices, so you can transferthe saved files to another application to takeadvantage of its unique features, tools, andmenus. Universal or common file formats are:JPEG, GIF, PICT, and PNG. 
Lesson 8 Digital Art 59
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is the difference between a paint
program and a draw program?
2.Name two hardware tools and three
desktop tools.
Exploring Tools of Art Software
Demonstrate technical skills. Use a
variety of art media to produce an
electronic media-generated artwork.Begin by launching the art application.Art applications are either based onpixels (Paint), or vector (Draw). Todiscover how to use the features of yourart software, you will draw a tree, a car,and a house. From the tools palette, findthe Pencil tool and Shape tool. To selecteach, click once. Begin drawing byclicking and dragging a shape to thesize you want.Y ou can also simply drawa line on the page with the pencil tool.
Explore with different sizes and
shapes. Draw the three objects so they donot touch. Fill a pencil-drawn shape withthe Fill tool. Use the Selection tool toencircle and select a shape. Move it ormake multiples. After an object isselected, choose Copy from the Editmenu, then Paste. Position copies andoverlap the objects. Click anywhere
outside the object to paste it in place.Most importantly, if you make a mistake ordon't like an effect, immediately choosethe Undo option from the Edit menu.
PORTFOLIO 
Print your image and put it in your
portfolio with an evaluation of how youexplored tools of art software.