BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 10.
After each number, write the term from thelist that matches each description below.
art medium pigment
binder portraitgesture drawing printmakingintaglio sculptureperception solvent
1.Transferring an image from an inked
surface to another surface.
2.Aliquid that holds together the grains 
of pigment.
3.Aprintmaking technique in which the
image to be printed is cut or scratchedinto a surface.
4.An awareness of the elements of an
environment by means of the senses.
5.Av i s ual representation of a person at rest.
6.Athree-dimensional work of art.
7.Am a t erial used to create a work of art.
8.Afinely ground powder that gives paint
its color.
9.Drawing lines quickly and loosely to cap-
ture the form and actions of a subject.
10.Aliquid used to control the thickness or
thinness of the paint.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 11 to 20.
Answer each question in a complete sentence.
11.What are three ways in which artists use
the art of drawing?
12.Name and describe four shading
techniques.
13.What is the binder in oil paint? What is
one advantage of using this medium?
14.What is a water-soluble paint?
15.What are the three tools common to
printmaking? Name two techniques ofprintmaking.
16.How does the use of space in sculptingdiffer from its use in other areas of art?
17.What is relief sculpture?
18.Name and describe four methods of
sculpting.
19.Explain the difference between computer
paint and draw programs.
20.Identify three pieces of hardware used 
in digital art. 
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
21.Language Arts. Imagine that you are
planning a painting. Write a brief reportdescribing factors that might lead you toselect a water-soluble paint over an oilpaint. What might prompt you to makethe opposite choice? Explain.
22.Language Arts. Describe the role tech-
nology has played in changing the waywe see and use art. Locate examples ofdigital art in magazines and books. Com-pare and contrast the digital artworks you selected with the artworks on pages 48–51.
Chapter 3 Review 61
The Baltimore Museum of Art,
Baltimore, Maryland
Engravings, etchings, and woodcuts are
not purely images of black ink on whitepaper. These images were often painted inthe mid-fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.
Learn about the techniques that were
applied to these images by clicking on theBaltimore Museum link at art.glencoe.com .
Describe the different types of techniques
and the reasons for coloring the images.Compare the woodcut and etching in thischapter with the artworks on the museumsite. How does color enhance the artworks?