the way balance is used to control shape or
form. Such people would find much to ap-plaud in the painting in Figure 4–3. Examine
this work yourself. Notice that it lacks any rec-ognizable subject matter. The artist has reliedinstead on the elements of color and shape tospark visual interest.
CONTENT VIEW
The third and final view states that the
most important single ingredient of any art-work is its content . This is the message, idea,
or feeling expressed by a work of art. Scholars
who hold the content view place the greatestvalue on a work’s expressive qualities. Apainting like the one in Figure 4–4 would
earn high marks from people who hold thisview. Notice the downward glances and for-lorn expressions. Observe how the man’sbody language—his arms folded tightlyabout him—seems to shut out the worldaround him. You can almost feel this family’spain. Note the work’s title. Do you find your-self wondering about the tragedy that befellthem?
Lesson 1 Aesthetics 65/rhombus6Figure 4–4 Examine the body language of the people
in this painting. What mood is conveyed? What role doescolor play?
Pablo Picasso. The Tragedy. 1903. Oil on wood. 105 /H1100369 cm
(411⁄3/H11003271⁄8/H11033). National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
Chester Dale Collection.
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is aesthetics?
2.What are the three commonly held
aesthetic views?
Picasso’s Blue Period (1901–04)
Cultural connection. During Pablo
Picasso’s Blue Period, the artist paintedalmost exclusively in shades of blue. TheBlue Period started with the suicide ofPicasso’s close friend. After this tragicevent, Picasso began using blue to depict
emotions such as sadness, loneliness, andisolation (see Figure 4–4 ).
The Blue Period is considered Picasso’s
first original artistic style. Shortly before this period, Picasso had traveled to Paris forthe first time. There, he experimented withestablished artistic styles, including Impres-sionism and Pointillism.
In 1904, he began painting in a new style.
This more optimistic style, in which Picassoused shades of rose, became known as theRose Period. Compare the subjects in Figure4–4 with those in Figure 4–2.
To learn more about Picasso and his
work, click on Artist Profiles at
art.glencoe.com .