WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Begin by looking closely at the building
across from the all-night diner in Figure4–8. Study the row of dark windows onthe second floor. Try to picture the kindsof rooms behind those windows. Decidewhether they are fancy apartments, drabhotel rooms, offices, or something else.Think about the outside of the building.What material is it made of?
2.Imagine that the lights were turned on
inside one of the rooms. Make severalsketches of what your mind “sees.” Drawa window frame like the one in Figure4–8, only larger. As you sketch, continueto imagine the contents of the room. Youmight include wallpaper, carpeting, andother furniture. As you work, ask your-self, “What kind of person lives or workshere?” Decide what clues you can pro-vide in your drawing to tell viewerssomething about the mood or personalityof this person.
3.Transfer your best sketch to the white
drawing paper. Work lightly in pencil.Make the outside wall of the buildinglook like brick, stone, or wood.
4.Color your picture using oil pastels.
Select colors that will give your room a “personality” to match that of itsimaginary occupant.
5.Like Hopper, avoid small, unnecessary
details. Lay one color over another tocreate textures. Overlap shapes andforms to suggest space inside the room.
6.Display your finished drawing in a
horizontal row along with those ofclassmates. 
Lesson 4 Creating a Realistic Painting 73
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Are the objects inside the
room easy to identify? What texture didyou use for the outside of your building?
●Analyze Did you show the different
values for objects inside the lighted room
compared to those in the darkness out-side? Did you overlap shapes and forms to suggest space?
●Interpret Does your drawing offer clues
about the mood or personality of theperson who might live or work in the room? 
●Judge Do you think your drawing is suc-
cessful? Does it present the subject matter in a realistic way?Evaluating Y our Work
STUDIO OPTIONSTUDIO OPTION
Create another version of your Hopper win-
dow. This scene is to be set during the day andis to reflect a mood opposite the one in your firstdrawing.This time the point of view will be look-ing through the window to the outside. Use pas-tels for the window frame and watercolors forthe landscape out of doors.Visual Art Journal
Organize ideas from the environ-
ment. At a local park or outside yourhome, sketch the scene around youin your journal. Notice the people,buildings, and time of day.Y our draw-
ing should be realistic and capturethe mood of the scene./rhombus6Figure 4–9 Student work. Hopper windows.
