Judging
In judging a work, the critic asks, “Is the
work successful?” This step depends on theanswers to the questions asked during thefirst three steps. A work may be judged suc-cessful on the basis of its subject, composi-tion, content, or some combination of thethree. How do you think an art critic wouldjudge the painting in Figure 4–5? Using whatyou have learned, how would you judge it? 
If you have been an alert art sleuth up to
this stage, you might have homed in on thestory this painting tells. A part of it is revealedin the detail from the work in Figure 4–6b. 
The slightly comical narrative centers on
two boys, probably brothers. The two are seencrossing a field—taking a shortcut, maybe,after having just completed the morning’smilking. Suddenly, each becomes aware of areal and present danger. Did you notice the bull
in the background? The two boys certainly did!The younger boy’s fear is obvious as he clingsto his companion. The older boy, armed with aswitch, proceeds fearlessly—or so he wouldlike his younger brother to believe.
Once you have described, analyzed, and
interpreted this painting, you will be able todecide for yourself whether or not it is suc-cessful. Do you find, now that you have gonethrough the three steps of art criticism, thatyou have made a judgment about whetherHomer’s Crossing the Pasture is a successful
work of art? What is your opinion?
Lesson 2 Art Criticism 69
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is art criticism? 
2.Name the four steps used by art critics.
Explain what is done at each step.
Reading a Credit Line
Apply your knowledge. Look again at
the painting in Figure 4–5 on page 66.You can learn about this work by noting
its title, Crossing the Pasture.
This information and much else
appears in the painting’s credit line. Acredit line is a listing of important facts
about an artwork. Appearing under or
near a work, a credit line has six parts. Itbegins with the artist’s name and thetitle of the artwork. The year the workwas created and the art medium or
media appear next. After that comes thesize of the artwork. The last piece ofinformation is the name of the museum,gallery, or other place in which the workis located. Referring to the credit line ofFigure 4–5, you would learn that thework w as painted by Winslow Homer in
about 1872. The “c.” before the datemeans “about.”
Every artwork in this book has a
credit line. Use the credit lines in Figures4–1 and 4–2 to answer the following:
●Which of the works was painted by
artist Pieter de Hooch?
●Which work was painted in the
seventeenth century?
●Which of the works is housed at The
Metropolitan Museum of Art?
PORTFOLIO 
Write a credit line for your next
artwork and place it in your portfolio.