Describing 
In describing a work, the critic asks the
question, “What do I see when I look at thiswork?” The work’s subject is the focus of this
step. Carefully list all the things you see inthe work. Look at the credit line to find outwhat medium the artist has used and howlarge the artwork is.
Examine the work shown in Figure 4–5.
●How many figures do you see in the
picture? 
●What object are they both holding? What does the taller boy have over hisshoulder? 
●What animals do you see in thebackground? 
●How would you describe thesurroundings?
In answering these questions, you will be
describing the subjects of this artwork.
Analyzing
In analyzing a work, the critic asks, “How
is this work of art organized? How are the elements and principles of art used?” Thework’s composition is the focus of this step.Again, look at the detail of the painting in
Figure 4–6a.
●What forms appear at the center of thecomposition? Why does the artist placethe boys in the center, close to the viewer?
●Can you find any intense or bright colorsin this picture? 
●Where is the lightest value? What pur-pose does it serve?
●Notice the diagonal lines formed by thestick in the taller boy’s hand and by thedownward slope of the hill on the right.These lines converge on, and emphasize,the face of the taller boy. Can you find athird diagonal line that does the same? 
●Can you find a more gently slopingdiagonal that points to the face of thesmaller boy?
●What colors has the artist used? Whattextures has he included?
●How has the artist used emphasis tomake the subjects stand out?
●What role does proportion play in thisartwork?
These questions and their answers are 
examples of the critic’s analysis of the com-position in the painting Crossing the Pasture.
Lesson 2 Art Criticism 67
/rhombus6Figure 4–6a What would you say is the subject of this painting?
Winslow Homer. Crossing the Pasture. Detail. c. 1872. Oil on canvas. 66.4 /H1100396.9 cm (261⁄8/H11003
381⁄8/H11033). Amon Carter Museum, Fort Worth, Texas.