intensities, and values that are
harmonious could express peace.
5.Paint the background bands in the colors
you have selected. Do not paint theletters themselves.WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sketch paper
●White drawing paper, 9 /H1100312 inches
●Tempera paint 
●Mixing trays
●Brushes
●Water
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.With classmates, brainstorm words nam-
ing moods and emotions. Possibilities in-clude happy, tired, worried, angry, and bored.
2.Choose one of the words. On sketch
paper, write the word out in large blockletters. Experiment with different letterdesigns that communicate the mood youhave chosen. You might, for example, userounded, overlapping letters for an up-
beat mood. Letters with straight edgesand sharp points might communicate anegative mood, such as anger. Lettersmay be all capitals or upper and lowercase but should fill the page.
3.Transfer your best design to the sheet of
drawing paper. Still working in pencil,create a background design. This is tohave the form of thick and thin bands ex-tending horizontally or vertically from oneedge of the paper to the other. As with theshape of the letters, the bands should re-flect the word you are using. Zigzag linesmight be used for the word tense. Curved
lines signal a more peaceful mood.
4.Select a color scheme that emphasizes the
emotion or feeling of your word. Boldlycontrasting hues, intensities, and valuesmight be used to express tension. Hues,
REFLECTIVE THINKINGREFLECTIVE THINKING
Critical Evaluation. As your class displays their
artworks, analyze the original exhibition of yourpeers. Examine the expressive word designsthey created and form conclusions about formalproperties. For example, how did they use shapeand color to emphasize emotion?
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Is the word you selected easily
read? Did you use large block letters towrite this word?
●Analyze Did you create a background
made up of bands of color? Did these colorscontrast with one another to create variety?
●Interpret Does your design reflect the
mood or feeling of the word? Do the shapesand colors help emphasize that emotion? 
●Judge Does your design communicate
an emotion with letters, shapes, andcolors? Is this a successful work of art?Evaluating Y our Work
For additional student art, check
out our Web site at art.glencoe.com .
There you will find:
●Interactive Games
●Student Art Gallery
●Artist Profiles
●Museum Web Links
Lesson 5 Creating an Expressive Word Design 75/rhombus6Figure 4–11 Student work. An expressive word.
