and forms. This new group took matters a
step further. They abandoned subject matteraltogether. They created nonobjective worksof art. Nonobjective means having no readily
identifiable subjects or objects.
Critiquing a 
Nonobjective Artwork 
In studying nonobjective works of art,
critics apply the same four-step process out-lined in the previous lesson. The main differ-ence comes at the description step. To see this,look again at the sculpture in Figure 4–7.
There is no identifiable subject. Even the titleprovides little help. In describing this work, a
critic would, therefore, concentrate first onidentifying the elements of art in it. He or shewould take note of the different lines andforms that are used. Because the work is asculpture that exists in three dimensions, thecritic would pay special attention to the element of space. How would you describethe sculptor’s use of space? How would youdescribe his use of negative space?
Now it is your turn to be a critic. Using
the skills you have learned, try applying eachof the following art-criticism steps to this artwork:
●Describing. How would you describe
this sculpture? How many varieties ofline have been used? What kinds of geo-metric or free-form shapes are visible? Isthere any color used? Where are negativespaces apparent?
●Analyzing. How would you analyze
this sculpture? What principle or princi-ples of art have been used to organize theelements of art?
●Interpreting. What ideas, moods, and
feelings are suggested by this work? Doesthe sculpture express an idea of somekind?
●Judging. Would you say that this work
is successful? Does it have unity? Whatfactors contribute to its success or lack ofsuccess?
Lesson 3 Critiquing Nonobjective Art 71
Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is meant by nonobjective art?
2.When examining a nonobjective artwork, 
what is identified during the descriptionstep?
Pop Art and Op Art
Historical connection. During the late
1950s and early 1960s, many technologicalchanges were taking place in the UnitedStates.The advent of television was one.Improvements in communication, trans-portation, and the media were also changingthe way people lived and worked.Thesechanges were reflected in two art movementsof the time period: Pop art and Op art.
In Pop art (short for Popular art),
everyday objects, such as soup cans, comic
strips, and fast food, were used as subjects.Pop artists, including Andy Warhol and Roy
Lichtenstein, depicted images from popularculture using the techniques of advertisingand mass media. Op art (short for Opticalart) was a form of abstract art thatpresented viewers with an optical illusion.Works in the Op art style often created an
illusion of movement.
Look at Figure 4–7. Do you think it could
be categorized as Pop art or Op art? If so,which one and why?