5.Once the glue is thoroughly dry, the yarn
will be stiff and hold its shape. Carefullylift the shape off the waxed paper. WHATYOUWILLLEARN
You will demonstrate technical skills
effectively using yarn to produce fiber art ofa simplified abstract shape. The shape will beof a falling figure. The image will be madewith a single, continuous line of colored yarn.The same thickness of the line throughoutwill add harmony to your work.
WHATYOUWILLNEED
●Pencil and sketch paper, 12 /H1100318 inches
●Waxed paper
●Transparent or masking tape
●Yarn, about 60 inches in length
●Large bowl
●White glue, thinned with water
WHATYOUWILLDO
1.Study Figure 4–12. Notice the way the
artist has captured the sense of a figurefalling through space. Trace your fingeraround the outline of the abstract shapeof this figure.
2.Complete several drawings of your ver-
sion of the falling Icarus. As in Figure 4–12,your work should be abstract. Use asingle continuous pencil line to createyour figures.
3.Transfer your best drawing to a sheet of
sketch paper. Make a heavy line usingpencil. Cover the drawing completely witha sheet of waxed paper that is smaller thanthe page. Secure the waxed paper in placewith tape. The drawing should be clearlyvisible through the waxed paper.
4.Draw a line of white glue over the pencil
line. Carefully lay the yarn on the line ofglue. Allow time for the yarn to dry. 
Lesson 6 Creating an Abstract Figure 77Figure 4–13 Student work. Abstract figures.
Evaluating Yo u r  W o r k
●Describe Is your work easily recognized
as an abstract figure?
●Analyze Did you use one continuous line
to create the abstract shape? Did the useof a line with the same thickness through-out add harmony to your design?
●Interpret Does your figure appear to be
falling through space?
●Judge Using composition to measure
accomplishment, is your work a success? Why or why not?Evaluating Y our Work
Include some form of written self-reflection
with your portfolio entry. In self-reflection, youhave the opportunity to critique your own works.You describe what you learned from the as-
signment. Y ou can also express whether you
think the work is a success, and what you liked ordidn’t like about doing the project.PORTFOLIO IDEASPORTFOLIO IDEASVisual Art Journal
Conduct in-progress analyses of
personal artworks. As you begin
Step 3, analyze your work andselect your best drawing. Keep theother drawings in your portfolio toshow your progression as an artist.