This long-beaked creature was one of many
animals the Egyptians worshiped. They be-lieved the ibis possessed special powers.
Did you notice anything unusual about
the way the figure is shown? Some bodyparts, including the head and arms, appearas they would if they were viewed from theside. Others, such as the shoulders, areshown as if they are seen from the front. Thisodd mix-and-match might seem at first to bea mistake. In fact, it is common to Egyptianart. It reflects certain strict rules Egyptianartists were forced to follow. The rules re-quired that each body part be shown from itsmost familiar angle. What parts besides thosementioned above are shown as side views?Which are treated as views from the front?
ART OF ANCIENT GREECE
While Egypt was still at its peak, another
great empire took root some 500 miles to thenorth. This was Greece. Greece reached itspeak during the fifth and fourth centuries 
B.C.
This was a time known as the Golden Age. Itwas called the Golden Age because it pro-duced influential writers and thinkers. It pro-duced important political leaders. It alsoproduced great artists.
Greek Vases
One of the most powerful leaders and in-
fluential thinkers of the Golden Age was aman named Pericles ( pehr -ih-kleez). Pericles
loved beauty and preached its importance.The aesthetic ideals Pericles held sacred maybe seen in everything the Greeks created.Beauty can be found in the perfectly propor-tioned temples of the period. It is reflected inthe idealized sculptures of gods and athletes.It also appears in carefully designed vasessuch as the one in Figure 5–3.
Examine this art object. Vases like this are
examples of applied art. This is art made to be
useful as well as visually pleasing. Applied art is
usually seen in contrast with fine art, or art
made to be enjoyed visually, not used. In thisprogram, you will see many examples of each
type of art.
Like other Greek vases, this one is re-
markable for the beauty of its form. It isequally noteworthy for the quality of thepainting that decorates it. The painting wasdone by Exekias (ex- zee-kee-uhs), the most
famous of Greek vase painters. It shows achariot led by a team of four spirited horses.Notice the air of excitement in the work. Whatart elements contribute to this feeling? Whatprinciples of art are used to organize them?
Lesson 1 Art of Long Ago 83
/rhombus6Figure 5–3 Analyze the interdependence of the art
element line and the principle movement in this vasepainting.
Greek. Exekias. Quadriga Wheeling Right. Slip-decorated
earthenware. 46.2 cm (183⁄16/H11033). Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo,
Ohio.