Not all criticism is negative. 
Critics who review work by actors, singers,
dancers, and artists may like what they see.They may also have different opinions.Robert Hughes, the art critic for TIME,shares his opinion in this portion of hisreview of painter Wayne Thiebaud.
ayne Thiebaud (b. 1920) is a Realist. He
loves material objects. More than any-
thing, however, Thiebaud is delighted by the sightof mass-produced American food. Not so muchthe soup can as the soup itself, or for that matterthe sandwich, the cake, or the slices of pie. He isfascinated by tiny variations within many similar-looking objects. So no two of Thiebaud’sslices are identical. The small but clear differencesin color and shape make an interesting painting.You end up thanking Thiebaud for reminding
you how full of variety the world really is.
Thiebaud especially loves the craft of painting.
He is a terrific craftsman. Whatever he asks paintto do, it will do, and come up looking effortlessafter it's done. The surface of his pictures is denseand smooth, and it looks as though he neverreworks the paint. Thiebaud’s art isn’t hit-or-
miss, however. All his lines and colors have apurpose. His creamy pie slices and cakes aredrawn with a strict, purposeful geometry. 
78 Chapter 4 Looking at Art
TIME TO CONNECTTIME TO CONNECT
•Now, you are the critic. Review the artworks
on this page and write a critical review, makingsure to strongly support your thoughts withspecific references to the art.
•Proofread your work with a partner. Besideschecking for spelling, punctuation, andgrammar, be sure to express your opinionswith supporting details.BURSTEIN COLLECTION/CORBIS FINE ARTS MUSEUM OF SAN FRANCISCO
Wayne Thiebaud. Three Machines. 1963.
Thiebaud’s artistic goal is to give pleasure in
a serious, intelligent way. His paintings looksimple, but there is more to them than atfirst meets the eye. One point he vividlymakes in his work is that nothing is exactlythe same as anything else—whether thosethings are soft wedges of pie or dozens ofdelicious gumballs.Wayne Thiebaud. Pie Table. 1963.
