BUILDING VOCABULARY
Number a sheet of paper from 1 to 10.
After each number, write the term from thelist that matches each description below.
abstract content
aesthetics credit lineaesthetic view nonobjectiveart critic point of viewcomposition subject
1.The message, idea, or feeling expressed
by a work of art.
2.Aperson whose job is studying, under-
standing, and judging works of art.
3.Art with a recognizable subject that is
shown in an unrealistic manner.
4.Art with no readily identifiable subjects
or objects.
5.An image viewers can easily identify.
6.The way the principles of art are used to
organize the elements of art.
7.The study of the nature of beauty and art.
8.Alisting of important facts about an
artwork. 
9.The angle from which the viewer sees 
the scene in an artwork.
10.An idea or school of thought on what is
most important in a work of art.
REVIEWING ART FACTS
Number a sheet of paper from 11 to 15.
Answer each question in a complete sentence.
11.Why do students of art usually accept
more than one aesthetic view? 
12.What are the four steps of art criticism?13.What kinds of art criticism questions join
an art element with an art principle?
14.Why is it impossible to measure the suc-
cess of a nonobjective artwork in terms ofsubject?
15.When examining a nonobjective artwork,
what is identified during description?
CROSS-CURRICULUM
CONNECTIONS
16.Language Arts. Imagine that two critics
are examining the same work of art. Eachcomes up with a different interpretation.Write a paragraph describing the reasons
that you think might explain this.
17.Language Arts. Review the artworks in
this chapter. Select one that might be agood illustration for a short story orpoem. Write the story or poem.
Chapter 4 Review 79
The Metropolitan Museum of Art,
New York, New York
Take a closer look at the history and tech-
niques behind various artworks. Visit theMetropolitan Museum of Art by clicking onthe museum’s link at art.glencoe.com .
Discover the story behind these images.
Write a brief summary of what you
learned about two of the artworks. Whatwere the most interesting facts? Knowing
this information, do you look at those twoartworks differently? Explain your answer.