instead focused on heads and busts. A bust
is a sculpture that shows a person’s head, shoul-
ders, and upper chest. 
Many wealthy Romans had busts made
of themselves and their families. These wereplaced in the subject’s home. One such por-trait sculpture appears in Figure 5–4. It is a
marble head of a young man. Clearly, theartist made no effort to flatter the sitter.Rather, the sculpture captures in great detailthe likeness of a real person. Inspect thiswork. In what ways is it similar to other por-trait sculptures you have seen? In what waysis it different? Would a critic taking the con-tent view praise this work? Why or why not?
Lesson 1 Art of Long Ago 85
Roman Empire A.D.100–130
Historical connection. In the long and
fascinating history of ancient Rome, the
years between A.D.100 and 130 fall in the
middle of the period known as the EarlyRoman Empire. This was a time of peaceand prosperity. This period also saw a greatexpansion of the Roman Empire. During
this time, Rome was ruled by a series ofemperors.
The first of these emperors was Trajan,
who ruled from 98 to 117. During Trajan’srule, many new public buildings were
constructed and the empire was expanded.Following Trajan was the emperor Hadrian,
who ruled the Roman Empire from 117 to138. Hadrian also undertook many buildingprojects, including completion of thePantheon and the construction of Hadrian's
Wall—a stone wall in northern Britain.
During this period, Roman art was
influenced by the styles and techniquesused by the ancient Greeks. Roman art wasconcerned primarily with showing man andhis achievements. Important events, suchas military victories, were commemoratedin paintings and sculptures. Portrait sculp-tures, such as the one in Figure 5–4, were
also common.
Compare Figure 5–4 with the Greek 
vase painting in Figure 5–3. What cultural
differences do you notice in theseartworks?Check Your 
Understanding
1.What is the job of an art historian?
2.Why did Egyptian artists always show the
human figure in the same unusual way?
3.When did ancient Greece reach its peak?
When and by whom was it conquered?
4.Compare Roman sculptures of people with
Greek sculptures of people. How do theydiffer?
5.What is the difference between applied art 
and fine art?
